With only 20 of said union chapter members in attendance, Hirzy and his followers were able to adopt a resolution opposing fluoridation. Like many things in our water supply--chlorine, for example--the amount determines whether it is safe or harmful. There are many rural areas of China that have naturally high levels of fluoride in the well water. So why, then, are most of the studies from China? The fear of fluoride follows the same playbook for mischaracterizing chemicals. General Jack D. Ripper: Nineteen hundred and forty-six. False alarms and scare tactics abound. Also useful was the fact that sodium fluoride is a rat poison and fluorine was used in nerve gas. parallel lines  As noted above, there are parallels to the fluoridation wars. That’s better than nothing, but I wonder how many people reading the press release will notice and read the disclaimer. " "But the World Health Organization opposes fluoridation!" Science does that from time to time. Most public water is fluoridated at a 0.7 ppm level, a third lower than what the NRC determined was still a safe level. children are getting fluoride not only from drinking water but from toothpastes, mouth rinses, and processed foods. For that reason, the EPA recommends that the amount of fluoride in a water supply not rise above certain levels. The fluoridation of water supplies to municipalities in the U.S. What they ignore is water fluoridation is a public health measure created to benefit the poorwithout means to access dentists. For example, vitamin A is critical to human health but a human (typically a child) can realistically poison himself/herself by consuming too much. The 2016 WHO report, Fluoride and Oral Health, clearly supports fluoridation for populations that would benefit from it.  "But a bunch of western European countries oppose fluoridation!" Deniers miss the notion that everything is poisonous in high enough concentrations. [ edit ]  Deniers will make various claims that the World Health Organization (WHO) opposes fluoridation. [ edit ]  Deniers will typically list nations that do not fluoridate their water. The “fluoride wars” are likely to continue as long there is a fluoridation program.