So why, then, are most of the studies from China? General Jack D. Ripper: Nineteen hundred and forty-six. After the above incident, Hirzy seems to have gone on to becoming the deniers' go-to guy. The report merely reviews the evidence for safe levels. There are many rural areas of China that have naturally high levels of fluoride in the well water. The fluoridation of water supplies to municipalities in the U.S. (Parts per million, ppm, and milligrams per liter, mg/L, are nearly equivalent. " "But the World Health Organization opposes fluoridation!" Deniers miss the notion that everything is poisonous in high enough concentrations. By way of evidence they will point to various WHO publications about the need to remove fluoride from water. [ edit ]  Deniers will make various claims that the World Health Organization (WHO) opposes fluoridation. The “fluoride wars” are likely to continue as long there is a fluoridation program. Most public water is fluoridated at a 0.7 ppm level, a third lower than what the NRC determined was still a safe level. The 2016 WHO report, Fluoride and Oral Health, clearly supports fluoridation for populations that would benefit from it. The report gives no support to fluoridation deniers as it suggests 2.0 ppm is a safe level. Reappraises safe consumption levels given changes in technologies and lifestyles.  "But the National Research Council opposes fluoridation!" For example, vitamin A is critical to human health but a human (typically a child) can realistically poison himself/herself by consuming too much. What they ignore is water fluoridation is a public health measure created to benefit the poorwithout means to access dentists.  "But a bunch of western European countries oppose fluoridation!" [ edit ]  Deniers will typically list nations that do not fluoridate their water. on the letterhead of his local National Treasury Employees Union Chapter 280. They typically list nations like Sweden, Finland, Denmark, etc. Most of these nations have dental care and surveillance at the school level.