Most of them were elderly and scattered widely throughout the United States and Canada. Additional studies on links between fluoride and cancer, and fluoride and bone fractures have been shown to be invalid. The claim is generally attributed to an early denier named Charles E. Perkins who wrote a book called The Truth about Water Fluoridation. According to them, fluoride is fine when applied topically (on toothpaste for instance), but not when it is part of the water supply (systemic). Severe fluorosis that adversely affects both appearance and function is close to zero among people who drink water that is optimally fluoridated. Tooth decay isn't contagious and it isn't fatal. Are significant numbers of poor children benefiting from the program? On the other hand, if the citizens want to fluoridate their water supply, I don't see why they shouldn't be free to do so within reasonable limits. Most of these nations have dental care and surveillance at the school level. For example Switzerland, Germany, and France don't fluoridate their water but they fluoridate their salt. The studies were largely looking at this exposure. China had a limited fluoridation program for a time, and has had no fluoridation of drinking water since 2002. They needed to drug them up. In addition to better access to childhood dental care, many of these nations don't fluoridate their water because they fluoridate their salt. For that reason, the EPA recommends that the amount of fluoride in a water supply not rise above certain levels. Chloride has all the attributes that make fluoride “scary.” When an identical situation produces almost no blowback, it speaks to the basis of fluoride fear. People with bad teeth may suffer, but they aren't a threat to the public. The communities with fluoridated water supplies had 50% fewer cavities. Soon, scientific data from thirteen countries confirmed these findings. Such a suit would have required at least $25,000 for the bond and legal fees. Without a study to stand on, the main opposition to water fluoridation seems to be political. Fluoridation: Don't Let the Poisonmongers Scare You  Bob Sprague  Mary Bernhardt  Stephen Barrett, M.D. The history of fluoridation in the United States underlines its unique standing as a public health measure copied from a natural phenomenon. The major risk cited by fluoride-in-water-skeptics is the risk of fluorosis.