How does that coincide with your post-war Commie conspiracy, huh? Furthermore, it's relatively easy and inexpensive to accomplish. That's the way your hard-core Commie works. There are no cities receiving a toxic concentration of the ion. It’s the fourth time Portland has rejected the public health measure since 1956. No doubt, some antis will continue to use this argument for a few hundred more years. The waiting game is a related gambit in which antis suggest that waiting a bit longer will help to resolve "doubt" about fluoridation's safety. Most public water is fluoridated at a 0.7 ppm level, a third lower than what the NRC determined was still a safe level. [ edit ]  Deniers will make various claims that the World Health Organization (WHO) opposes fluoridation. –  Image Credit:  Panoramic X-ray of all 32 teeth of a male in his 40s with no cavities or fillings or other dental work by Ruhrfisch. If freedom were really the issue, then municipalities should be free to have or not have fluoride added to their water supplies. From 1933 to 1945, the study of the relationship between fluorine and tooth decay. It would be especially beneficial to children living in poverty, whose parents could not afford adequate dental care. In the last few months, a number of Queensland local councils have voted to end water fluoridation from drinking water. However, Politifact casts some doubt on the Perkins origin. It is possible to find someone with scientific credentials who is against just about anything. (Read: They were studying fluoride poisoning.) The suggestion is the Nazis fluoridated the water to pacify the death camp populations. Not getting any cavities. If safety were really the issue, then accurate information and consensus science should be in the forefront. When this is the case fluoride is actually removed from the water to get the greatest benefit. In 1931, the "something" was identified as fluoride. These councils cover approximately 500,000 people. For that reason, the EPA recommends that the amount of fluoride in a water supply not rise above certain levels.