 By 23 March 2011, neutron radiation had been observed outside the reactors 13 times at the Fukushima I site. Over the course of the disaster, Chernobyl put out a total of 85,000 TBq of caesium-137. The melted material was not expected to breach one of the lower containers, causing a serious radioactivity release. " On 15 April, TEPCO reported that nuclear fuel had melted and fallen to the lower containment sections of three of the Fukushima I reactors, including reactor three. For cesium-137, the highest values were in Yamagata at 150 and 1200 Bq/m2 respectively. After September the city of Fukushima collected the 36,478 "glass badges" of dosimeters from all its citizens for analysis. At the end of October 2012 TEPCO admitted that it could not exclude radioactivity releases into the ocean, although the radiation levels were stabilised. An additional 6 had received over 100 mSv, of which for 1 a level of over 150 mSv was reported for unspecified activities on site. Samples taken on 23 and/or 24 March contained about 80 Bq/mL of iodine-131 (1850 times the statutory limit) and 26 Bq/mL and caesium-137, most likely caused by atmospheric deposition. The coastal fisheries remain closed, and contaminated fish are not sold in Japan or exported, according to news reports. Gases from the reactors would be decontaminated before they would be released into the air. The survey was done to determine the risks for thyroid cancer within the population. *****      Letter to the editor of OJPed in response to:      Joseph J. Mangano, Janette D. Sherman. TEPCO's chlorine-38 report was later retracted. In 2011 at this place the fish measured about 50 becquerels per kilogram, and the fishing season was opened as usual. Experts said exposure to this amount of radiation for 6 to 7 hours would result in absorption of the maximum level considered safe for one year.  On 22 September the results were published of a survey conducted by the Japanese Science Ministry. Thirty workers conducting operations at the plant had exposure levels greater than 100 mSv. Radiation exposure to workers at the plant was projected to result in 2 to 12 deaths. Some contract companies working for TEPCO have opted not to use the higher limit.  On 3 September 2011 radioactive caesium exceeding the government's safety limit had been detected in tea leaves in Chiba and Saitama prefectures, near Tokyo. On 22 March, World Nuclear News reported that one worker had received over 100 mSv during "venting work" at Unit 3. While this could indicate ongoing fission, a recriticality event was not believed to account for these readings. Scientists preparing this map, as well as earlier maps, targeted a 20 mSv/a dosage target for evacuation. measurements show persistent contamination of some marine species (mostly fish) caught along the coast of Fukushima district. The 5 May announcement further clarified that as of 28 April, the radioactivity level in Tokyo sewage was 16,000 Bq/kg. Materials collected during April 2011 from Japan also contained iodine-131. What was the limit of detection? These tests were conducted in order to verify local government data using different numbers and kinds of food samples. Due to the low baseline rates of thyroid cancer, even a large relative increase represents a small absolute increase in risks. When the Committee's report is published, it will be the most comprehensive international scientific analysis of the information available to date. Follow us @livescience, Facebook & Google+. In Iwate some 36,000 cattle were produced in a year. Even into July radioactive beef was found on sale in eleven prefectures, as far away as Kōchi and Hokkaido. Beef from Fukushima Prefecture was removed from the distribution channels. In addition, certain samples of beef mainly taken on 27–show of 29 Marched concentrations of iodine-131 and/or caesium-134 and caesium-137 above the regulatory levels. The most important technical point to understand about various reactor kinds is the moderator. Fortunately, at Three Mile Island, only a tiny amount of radiation was released. The letter was also sent to both authors, Mangano and Sherman. And they also look at the 2010-2011 change of CH cases in 36 other US states (the control region).