Cancer risks for the unborn child are considered to be similar to those in 1 year old infants. Radiation epidemiologist Roy Shore contends that estimating health effects in a population from the LNT model "is not wise because of the uncertainties".  While there were no deaths caused by radiation exposure, approximately 18,500 people died due to the earthquake and tsunami. It is believed that the health effects of the radioactivity release are primarily psychological rather than physical effects. However, people who have been evacuated have suffered from depression and other mental health effects. It did set a new record: containing 740,000 becquerels radioactive cesium per kilogram, 7,400 times the Japanese limit deemed safe for human consumption. These tests were conducted in order to verify local government data using different numbers and kinds of food samples. Part of this beef, which had reached the markets, still needed to be tested. The ashes of waste facilities in the Tohoku, Kanto and Kōshin'etsu regions were proven to be contaminated with radioactive cesium. Radiation exposure to workers at the plant was projected to result in 2 to 12 deaths. A city official said that this kind of exposure would not affect their health. Otherwise people will feel they are just guinea pigs in our research. We must not only track those problems, but also treat them. Marine fish might be more capable of excreting cesium from their bodies, because saltwater fish have the ability to excrete salt. This map covered a much wider area than before. These were 14 to 15 times higher than the limit set by NISA. Map of contaminated areas around the plant (22 March – 3 April).  A 2013 article in the Stars and Stripes asserted that a Japanese government study[which?] It was not possible to secure new storage space for the radioactive ash. On 24 March, IAEA reported that virtually all milk samples and vegetable samples taken in Fukushima and Ibaraki on 18–21 and 16–22 March respectively were above the limit. None had thyroid cancer. 186 (0.5%) of these had nodules larger than 5.1 mm and/or cysts larger than 20.1 mm and underwent further investigation. According to director William Nolten the region had a big potential for the production of clean energy. The fish was caught for testing purposes prior to the opening of the fishing season. North-west and westwards the soil was less contaminated, because of mountain protection. Rain accumulated the cesium in the soil. Until November this sheet was stored alongside a gymnasium. Trace quantities of radioactive particles from the incident, including iodine-131 and caesium-134/137, have since been detected around the world. In this process toxic substances are filtered out of the ashes, and the water used to clean these filters was discharged into Tokyo Bay. Because the origins were scattered all over the prefecture, Miyagi became the second prefecture with a ban on all beef-cattle shipments. The seeds will be used to produce bio-diesel, which could be used to produce electricity. Measured radioactivity per kilogram reached 250 becquerels in eastern Hokkaido, and 25 becquerels in the mountains of western Japan. One day later, the measured levels were 163,000 Bq/kg of Cs-137 and 1,170,000 Bq/kg of I-131. There was some delay, because the farmers and the local government could not agree about the prices. Starting from the second week of August all cattle were tested. The science ministry said that the source of the Strontium was still unclear. Thirty workers conducting operations at the plant had exposure levels greater than 100 mSv. Six fishery cooperatives and 10 towns along the river were asked to stop all shipments of fish caught in the river. In March 2012 fish and shellfish caught in a pond near the same river were found to contain levels above the new legal limits of 100 becquerels per kilogram.  The Dutch bio-farming company Waterland International and a Japanese federation of farmers made an agreement in March 2012 to plant and grow camellia on 2000 to 3000 hectare.