Some ancient texts referred to using acupuncture to cause bleeding, while others mixed the ideas of blood-letting and spiritual ch'i energy. The indefatigable CAM researcher Edzard Ernst stepped up to the plate. According to David Ramey, no single "method or theory" was ever predominantly adopted as the standard. Therefore, we shall consider only meta-analyses. The small excess is predicted by poor study design and publication bias. Conflicts of Interest: Professor Colquhoun has no financial conflicts of interest. Ernst et al.18 point out that the positive studies conclude that acupuncture relieves pain in some conditions but not in other very similar conditions. Over time, the focus shifted from blood to the concept of puncturing specific points on the body, and eventually to balancing Yin and Yang energies as well. Some research suggests acupuncture can alleviate pain but the majority of research suggests that acupuncture's effects are mainly due to placebo. The most parsimonious explanation is that the positive studies are false positives. Thousands of acupuncture studies have been done over the last several decades, with conflicting results. Even systematic reviews have disagreed with each other. Believers in acupuncture claim it is supported by plenty of published scientific evidence. Reprints will not be available from the authors. :70 Once methods for producing steel were discovered, it would replace all other materials, since it could be used to create a very fine, but sturdy needles. :71-72 It is possible Bronze was used for early acupuncture needles.  Belief systems  Several different and sometimes conflicting belief systems emerged regarding acupuncture. There is a diverse range of acupuncture approaches, involving different philosophies. TCM practitioners disagree among themselves about how to diagnose patients and which treatments should go with which diagnoses. Attestation: Professor Colquhoun approved the final manuscript. Name: Steven P. Novella, MD. The time had come to re-visit the entire body of acupuncture research and try to make sense out of it all. Many postings to Dr. Colquhoun’s blog address the lack of scientific evidence for alternative medicine. Everything else is the expected noise of clinical trials, and this noise seems particularly high with acupuncture research. Bian Que believed there was a single acupuncture point at the top of one's skull that he called the point "of the hundred meetings. Copyright © 2013 International Anesthesia Research Society  A 2013 systematic review found 31 cases of vascular injuries caused by acupuncture, three resulting in death.  Purported scientific basis  Modern acupuncture model  Scientific research has not supported the existence of qi, meridians, or yin and yang. Certainly, such an accumulation of negative results would result in the withdrawal of any conventional treatment.  Acupuncture seems to be safe in people getting anticoagulants, assuming needles are used at the correct location and depth. It would certainly be odd if a treatment that had been advocated for such a wide variety of conditions turned out to work only for PONV. Is there any reason not to hold acupuncture to the same standards? With this information, they can then make their own informed decision. It is now clear that they do not. Some acupuncture proponents argue that the long history of acupuncture suggests it is safe. One wonders what the reviewers were thinking. The incidence of serious adverse events was 5 per one million, which included children and adults. :70 Many Chinese texts from later eras refer to sharp stones called "plen", which means "stone probe", that may have been used for acupuncture purposes. It is considered unlikely that acupuncture was practiced before 2000 BC. “The differences between the results obtained with real and sham acupuncture are small and not clinically relevant. With the current state of the evidence, I do not think we should be recommending acupuncture to our patients. After more than 3000 trials, that is dubious. Let me explain what I mean by that.