And that's pretty implausible. ones that have been inappropriately designed, conducted or reported) are prone to give misleading results.  Positive results are much more likely to be false if the prior probability of the claim under test is low. Since we completed our literature search in 1995, a considerable number of new homeopathy trials have been published. It seems, therefore, likely that our meta-analysis at least overestimated the effects of homeopathic treatments. The study concluded that its findings were "compatible with the notion that the clinical effects of homeopathy are placebo effects". This was accompanied by an editorial pronouncing "The end of homoeopathy",which was denounced by the homeopath Peter Fisher.  A 2017 systematic review and meta-analysis found that the most reliable evidence did not support the effectiveness of non-individualized homeopathy. The authors noted that "the quality of the body of evidence is low. " The results of these reviews are generally negative or only weakly positive, and reviewers consistently report the poor quality of trials. The finding of Linde et. al. that more rigorous studies produce less positive results is supported in several and contradicted by none. Some clinical trials have tested individualized homeopathy, and there have been reviews of this, specifically. A 1998 reviewfound 32 trials that met their inclusion criteria, 19 of which were placebo-controlled and provided enough data for meta-analysis. The authors concluded that "the results of the available randomized trials suggest that individualized homeopathy has an effect over placebo. The evidence, however, is not convincing because of methodological shortcomings and inconsistencies." The same research team later reported that taking into account model validity did not significantly affect this conclusion.  Unassisted natural healing – time and the body's ability to heal without assistance can eliminate many diseases of their own accord. Unrecognized treatments – an unrelated food, exercise, environmental agent, or treatment for a different ailment, may have occurred. A 2007 systematic review of high-dilution experiments found that none of the experiments with positive results could be reproduced by all investigators.  In 1987, French immunologist Jacques Benveniste submitted a paper to the journal Nature while working at INSERM. The journal editors, sceptical of the results, requested that the study be replicated in a separate laboratory. Upon replication in four separate laboratories the study was published.  In 2001 and 2004, Madeleine Ennis published a number of studies that reported that homeopathic dilutions of histamine exerted an effect on the activity of basophils. In response to the first of these studies, Horizon aired a programme in which British scientists attempted to replicate Ennis' results; they were unable to do so.  Ethics and safety  The provision of homeopathic preparations has been described as unethical. Let people buy what they want, but tell them the truth about what they are buying. These treatments are biologically implausible and the clinical tests have shown they don't do anything at all in human beings.