The high dilutions characteristically used are often considered to be the most controversial and implausible aspect of homeopathy.  A 2000 review by homeopaths reported that homeopathic preparations are "unlikely to provoke severe adverse reactions". One-third of a drop of some original substance diluted into all the water on earth would produce a preparation with a concentration of about 13C. :148–9  19th century: rise to popularity and early criticism  Homeopathy achieved its greatest popularity in the 19th century. was also a vocal critic of homeopathy and published an essay in 1842 entitled Homœopathy and Its Kindred Delusions.  From its inception, however, homeopathy was criticized by mainstream science. "19th-century American physician and author Oliver Wendell Holmes, Sr. Hahnemann associated each miasm with specific diseases, and thought that initial exposure to miasms causes local symptoms, such as skin or venereal diseases.  Hahnemann's miasm theory remains disputed and controversial within homeopathy even in modern times. Hahnemann coined the expression "allopathic medicine", which was used to pejoratively refer to traditional Western medicine. If, however, these symptoms were suppressed by medication, the cause went deeper and began to manifest itself as diseases of the internal organs. None of the hundreds of demonstrators in the UK, Australia, New Zealand, Canada and the US were injured and "no one was cured of anything, either".  Ethics and safety  The provision of homeopathic preparations has been described as unethical. In response to the first of these studies, Horizon aired a programme in which British scientists attempted to replicate Ennis' results; they were unable to do so.  In 2001 and 2004, Madeleine Ennis published a number of studies that reported that homeopathic dilutions of histamine exerted an effect on the activity of basophils. Upon replication in four separate laboratories the study was published. The journal editors, sceptical of the results, requested that the study be replicated in a separate laboratory.  In 1987, French immunologist Jacques Benveniste submitted a paper to the journal Nature while working at INSERM. These treatments are biologically implausible and the clinical tests have shown they don't do anything at all in human beings. A 2007 systematic review of high-dilution experiments found that none of the experiments with positive results could be reproduced by all investigators. Unrecognized treatments – an unrelated food, exercise, environmental agent, or treatment for a different ailment, may have occurred.  Unassisted natural healing – time and the body's ability to heal without assistance can eliminate many diseases of their own accord. The same research team later reported that taking into account model validity did not significantly affect this conclusion. Let people buy what they want, but tell them the truth about what they are buying.  In 2015 the Federal Court of Australia imposed penalties on a homeopathic company, Homeopathy Plus! The argument that this information is not relevant or important for customers is quite simply ridiculous. The authors concluded that "the results of the available randomized trials suggest that individualized homeopathy has an effect over placebo.