The study also cites two of Seralini’s studies. Oddly enough, the study cites a Daily Mail scare piece article right next to Seralini’s 2012 study, despite both of them covering the exact same content. I’m sure you reader can come up with better ways of looking at this and other stories. Neither did it influence the composition of the cecal microbiota, with the exception of a minor increase in the genus Holdemania. Consumption per capita requires i) total domestic consumption of sheep meat and ii) population of the country. Probably one would:  Get the size of the New Zealand sheep flock. So this selective focus is scientifically inappropriate. I don’t know if this the actual explanation for the “lamb consumption crash”. Having higher mycotoxins in the GM feed may indicate that it has been in storage longer, perhaps too long, which could result in other compositional changes. "This study certainly is at risk of this." The Shannon diversity index (an unweighted measure of the number of species present in a community) was similar across all four treatments ( Table 3 ). Likewise, Good’s coverage and Chao 1 richness estimator were similar between treatments ( Table 3 ). The porcine cecal microbiota was dominated by Clostridiaceae (9.6%), Prevotellaceae (9.1%), Veillonellaceae (6.2%), Ruminococcaceae (5.2%) and Bacteroidaceae (3.8%; Figure 2 ). No significant differences were observed between treatments at the genus level, with the exception of Holdemania. Tom Sanders, of Kings College, London, concurs: "It seems unlikely that the effects observed were treatment-related." According to the study itself, there’s no bias to declare. We have to remember that not the whole population is slaughtered every year, as we have to replace the flock. The non-GM starter diet was fed to all pigs from weaning (day -12) until the beginning of the study (day 0). The difference between flock size – (sheep for export + replacement sheep) should be the number of sheep for domestic consumption. "Whenever you measure a large number of outcomes you increase the risk of chance findings," he said. So we have a suspicious journal, and a biased author… I wonder who’s funding the study? Therefore, feeding studies in pigs are more likely to provide an accurate insight into the potential impact of Bt maize in humans. What they don't mention is that the GM-fed pigs had about half the levels of heart, liver, and spleen abnormalities. Eubacterium were only detected in pigs fed the isogenic/Bt and Bt/isogenic treatments and not in those fed the Bt and isogenic treatments. I contacted two highly qualified individuals whom I respect and follow on twitter. What on earth is going on? Read the paper, look at the data, and what you come away with is hard evidence that factory farming is a terrible way to raise pigs. As for the Wilcoxon test, it simply isn’t true that it is only for use with continuous data . Only a single GM diet was used which precludes the possibility of determining if a dose-response relationship exists. Also discovered were bigger uteri among the females. If something aint right, they notice it, and try to fix it immediately. Ventilation was by exhaust fans and air inlets connected to a Stienen PCS 8200 controller. He has worked in the area of agricultural biotech risk assessment for nearly three decades. So, on its face, the paper starts out as suspect. The 16 S rRNA reads from the cecum of 150 day old pigs were assigned to a total of 36 families. It's a good reason for another study, one that does have a hypothesis going in and does define its outcomes ahead of time. Sequencing analysis identified 49 genera within the cecum of 150 day old pigs. The new study focused on feeding pigs a diet of genetically modified grain. The authors measured LOTS of things, and mostly found there was no statistical differences between the GM and non-GM diets. Feeding pigs a Bt maize-based diet for 110 days did not affect counts of any of the culturable bacteria enumerated in the feces, ileum or cecum. Feed was available ad libitum as dry pellets from stainless steel dry feed hoppers 30 cm in length (O’Donovan Engineering, Coachford, Co. Pigs showing signs of ill health were treated as appropriate and all veterinary treatments were recorded.