(States regulate medicine within their own borders.) A few months later I heard the words I’d waited three years for: “There is no sign of lymphoma anywhere.”  Burzynski’s criminal trial began in February 1997. If only that were what Dr. Burzynski were really doing under the auspices of clinical trials like the University of Michigan trial! Burzynski lumps all responses together in an oncologically meaningless way. Emanuel Revici's therapy is based on an unusual theory of pathophysiology: all conditions, including cancer, result from an imbalance of metabolism. Given Burzynski’s notoriety, it didn’t take long for us to come across the subject of antineoplastons. By 1830, British parliamentary records list over 1,300 different "proprietary medicines,"the majority of which were "quack" cures by modern standards. He graduated from the Medical Academy in Lublin. However, she was polite with me, probably because of the positions I hold at an NCI-designated comprehensive cancer center. The story, including the threats against the bloggers, was covered by the BMJ (formerly the British Medical Journal). When the next patient complained of a side effect, I knew the doctor could research the exact day, the exact hour, I’d experienced the same problem. And they cover a broad spectrum of genes, which means from the very beginning we have a much better chance to help this patient. As bad, Dr. Burzynski massively oversells what he is doing. As Xeno also notes, the out-of-pocket costs are staggering. They exist in our blood and form a protective system against cancer. Some of them do other things. But how credible is this claim? What, exactly, is he doing? He seems to think that all tumor suppressors prevent mutations, which is, of course, not true. It’s hard to figure out from his website, but looking elsewhere can provide hints. In the meantime, let’s start with a description of what “personalized medicine” means to cutting edge cancer researchers. For example, here are a typical radio interview (on Oprah Radio, of course!) There was a trend for alternative medicine users to have shorter survival (hazard ratio 1.30, 95% CI, 0.99–1.70; P = 0.056), a result that was robust to various sensitivity analyses. Dr. Burzynski is also not shy about being interviewed by promoters of alternative medicine, such as Mike Adams. Whether the groups will eventually reach an N of 1, I don’t know, but that is the goal. This number grows rapidly with the advancement of the research in genomics. And:  There are currently close to 30 targeted therapeutics approved by the FDA (as of January 2011). Elsewhere, Dr. Burzynski claims:  In some cases conventional therapy is the most appropriate treatment for a patient. Here is how it is described:    Our approach to cancer is a result of Dr. Burzynski’s extensive experience in cancer research in the field of genetics and genomics. But what is “personalized gene-targeted cancer therapy,” according to Dr. Burzynski? Antineoplastons aren’t even listed until the third bullet point. No longer are antineoplastons the center of attention at his clinic. In fact, from my perspective, it appears to me as though over the last few years Dr. Burzynski has pivoted. Although antineoplastons are the dubious cancer therapy upon which Dr. Burzynski built his fame, they aren’t the only thing he does. Worse, as has been noted in a number of places, high doses of antineoplastons as sodium salts are required, doses so high that severe hypernatremia is a concern. Since the late 1970s, when he founded his clinic, Dr. Burzynski has been using antineoplastons to treat cancer. All of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved gene-targeted medications are available for treatment at the Burzynski Clinic. Decades would pass before the development of the selective estrogen modulator, Tamoxifen, and it would be still more decades before aromatase inhibitors. For instance, in breast cancer, Herceptin (trastuzumab) targets the HER2 oncogene, which is amplified in some breast cancers. I also had a brief e-mail correspondence with Renée Trimble, Director of Public Relations for the Burzynski Institute. With our methods, we can have answers for the patient in about three days based on blood tests. We study which genes in individual patients are abnormal, trying to determine the genetic signature of cancer in these patients. Later in the interview, Somers (SS) asks Dr. Burzynski (SB) about breast cancer, and he replies:  SB: At the moment we use a different approach. Whether this is what Dr. Burzynski is doing or not with the chemotherapy part of his approach, I don’t know for sure, but it sure sounds like it. From the description above, it sounded very much to me as though Dr. Burzynski is combining various targeted agents with metronomic chemotherapy.