It is not possible to say whether the observed difference is a real physiological action or whether it is a placebo effect of a rather dramatic intervention. The acupuncture and no-acupuncture groups were, of course, neither blind to the patients nor blind to the practitioner giving the treatment. The patients were being treated for a variety of chronic pain conditions. His personal physician quotes him as saying “Even though I believe we should promote Chinese medicine, I personally do not believe in it. David Gorski at Science-based Medicine lists a number of these spun headlines. Comparison of these 2 meta-analyses shows how important it is to read the results, not just the summaries. Furthermore, it shows that the idea of meridians is purely imaginary. If, indeed, sham acupuncture is no different from real acupuncture, the apparent improvement that may be seen after acupuncture is merely a placebo effect. Can we finally just say that acupuncture is nothing more than an elaborate placebo? How should we read a scientific paper? As a result, more research has been done on acupuncture than on just about any other fringe practice. About twice as many in the groups stuck with needles responded to the treatment as in the non-needle group. When both true and sham acupuncture groups respond positively in studies at about the same level, the data support the placebo hypothesis. The crucial result was that even this bigger difference corresponded to only a 10-point improvement on a 100-point pain scale. I do not take Chinese medicine.”3 The political, or perhaps commercial, bias seems to still exist. Acupuncture research is inherently riddled with pitfalls. It is said that Chairman Mao himself preferred Western medicine. Madsen et al.12 looked at 13 trials with 3025 patients, in which acupuncture was used to treat a variety of painful conditions. This study will do neither. I assume he selected it because it is typical or he thinks it is one of the better studies. Therapy is based on which "pattern of disharmony" can be identified. Dean Radin, for example, has wrapped himself and parapsychology in the mantle of meta-analysis to the point of absurdity. Please, no more studies that don't use proper controls or randomization, or are based on small samples. And when no effective treatment exists for a medical problem, it leads to a tendency to clutch at straws. In fact, taken as a whole, the published (and scientifically rigorous) evidence leads to the conclusion that acupuncture is no more effective than placebo. They explain how inconsistencies, biases, conflicting conclusions, and recent high quality studies throw doubt on even the most positive reviews. China and Korea sent "medical missionaries" that spread traditional Chinese medicine to Japan, starting around 219 AD. I'll refer to these factors as "false placebos." The new research found "no evidence of any placebo effect in any of the studies cited by him." In 1997, Kienle and Kiene published an evaluation of the 1955 seminal placebo study by H. K. Beecher, "The Powerful Placebo." They may have joined the study more to alleviate their pain than to aid science. First, there is the problem of getting unbiased volunteers to participate in such studies. In addition, subjects who do not feel like they are getting any pain relief might conclude that they are getting the placebo treatment and drop out. The animal experiments confirmed this result. In more than one recent study, researchers have chosen not to use a sham acupuncture control group. Reddy claims that "countless studies have proven acupuncture’s effectiveness in improving the viability and diameter of ova." The large difference between the two acupressure groups is interesting, however. It is most often used for pain relief,though it is also used for a wide range of other conditions. A good example of this came recently with a new systematic review2 of studies looking at acupuncture for chronic pain. In fact, this situation is all rather terrifying. The acupuncture needles were purely cosmetic. Some meta-analyses have found that there may be a small difference between sham and real acupuncture. We might expect newspapers to make medical research stories more sensational than they really are.