They have a good point, but there are other, relatively easy, ways to minimize differences between the two feeds that were not used in this study. For example, the carbohydrates in soybeans can vary from 26-50% of dry weight! Lets take a closer look at the data in table 3. However, they didn’t test the nutrients and anti-nutrients in the corn and soy going into the feed. Why does the variety matter? Why am I mentioning all these people? One needs to be a lot more cautious given the design of this study. Ideally, a feeding study like this would have controlled growing environments, genetic isolines, and testing of the grain. This is not necessarily wrong behavior, scientists go on fishing trips all the time looking to find significant effects. However, natural variation is huge. In common tongue, the data may not meet those assumptions for the analyses. It might take a little more time and money, but isn’t it worth it to have good results, especially when so many lives are used in the testing? They did a visual scoring of the colour of the lining of the stomach of pigs at the abattoir and misinterpreted redness to indicate evidence of inflammation. The way we treat our pigs - their lifestyle, their happiness, and their overall health - is much more important than the genes in their grains. We can put this another way and say that the GM varieties fall within the natural variation expected for that type of crop. Happily, many highly qualified bloggers have provided thoughtful rebuttals on various aspects of the study. They tested more than 20 parameters, and claim – wait for it — one hit – exactly what statistics would predict. Andrew Kniss points out that he can’t replicate their result with the appropriate statistical test. If more than 20, you would expect on statistical grounds alone to have at least one apparent hit caused just by statistical artifact. As noted above, given the absence of correlated pathologies, it looks like an artifact. The “peer reviewed” article appears in an obscure journal with no track record in the field. Yet another, and worse, objection has to do with the actual analyses they used. In other words, they don’t know how much of what was eaten by ANY of their animals. This is not hypothesis-driven work. The headlines have 'smoking gun' written all over them. While this was true in the past, it is not true today. Concerning is even a stretch. What on earth is going on? One should mention the extensive literature on the safety of GM foods. They authors did not at the outset say, “we propose stomach inflammation will be greater in GM fed pigs because of x”. And they must think we’re all stupid not to notice any of this. So is it real, or an artifact? Time for a quick gut check — step back and ask – how many parameters did they evaluate? Hard to know where to begin. The researchers don’t even have to contact the company or sign a separate contract. The authors don’t mention any kind of testing or blending to match the GM and non-GM feeds for nutrients. Having higher mycotoxins in the GM feed may indicate that it has been in storage longer, perhaps too long, which could result in other compositional changes. The numbers become GMO 41, non GM 38. In other words, if it is not highly significant, don’t count it. Why would I look at it this way? This was apparently too generous. Previous studies have shown that Bt corn has lower levels of mycotoxins.