Both haemogloblin concentration and hematocrit initially increased as the pigs aged but decreased thereafter (P<0.01). There appears to be quite a wide variety of animals tested in the studies used by Snell, one of which also reviewed pigs. Overall, the total count of leukocytes was not altered by dietary treatment. Furthermore, leukocyte counts increased as the pigs aged (P<0.001). On page 2, the authors claim that Snell’s meta-review of 24 long-term and multigenerational studies is deficient due to the types of animals used. There was no effect of feeding Bt maize to pigs on populations of CD3 + , CD3 + CD4 + or CD3 + CD8 + T cells isolated from PBMC at any time during the study. The study also cites two of Seralini’s studies. Now that we’ve learned some valuable information about the study’s background, let’s start digging into the study itself. According to the study itself, there’s no bias to declare. The cry1Ab gene, regardless of amplicon size, was not detected in the cecum or colon. Haemogloblin concentration, haematocrit or the erythrocyte parameters MCV, MCH, MCHC and RDW were not altered by dietary treatment. These findings suggest that copy number is the rate limiting step in the traceability of transgenic DNA. Guertler et al.and Mazza et al.also detected fragments of the multiple copy endogenous chloroplast zein gene in organs of deer and pigs fed Bt maize, respectively. Rarefaction curves were similar between treatments ( Figures S1 , S2 , S3 and S4 ). There was a statistically significant (but likely clinically-meaningless) increase (0.1kg vs 0.12kg) in uterus weights in the GM group. Who’s funding this study? Now, is that “damning” or “concerning”? The way we treat our pigs - their lifestyle, their happiness, and their overall health - is much more important than the genes in their grains. In other words, they don’t know how much of what was eaten by ANY of their animals. And they must think we’re all stupid not to notice any of this. In my initial read of the paper I didn’t notice this sentence “Typical examples of each of the four categories of inflammation are shown in Figure 1. No, they just looked at the color of the stomach by gross pathology. Treatment×time interactions for all immune cell populations examined were non-significant ( Table 5 ). However, on day 100, pigs fed Bt/isogenic maize diets tended to have higher leukocyte counts than pigs fed isogenic or Bt maize diets for 110 days ( Table 6 ; P = 0.06). Yet in the very next section, they state that they were funded in part by Verity Farms, a natural farming company that appears to grow and sell non-GM products. We have previously reported a decrease in erythrocyte counts in sows fed Bt maize (Text S1). In addition, differences in digestive physiology between humans and ruminantsmake the latter less suitable as a human model. This is a shame, because a lot of pigs lost their lives here. I really wish that researchers like this would take the time to double-check their methods before doing the experiment. And Severe is worse than the other three categories. The second major finding of this study relates to stomach inflammation. This is in agreement with published literature which indicates that lactobacilli reach a stable community after the first week of life,,. This study seems to hinge on severe stomach inflammation being higher in the GM-fed pigs than in the non-GM-fed pigs. Before the fervor dies down, which could take months, it will have been read by millions of people. In other words, if it is not highly significant, don’t count it. The main complaint he addresses is that the stomach severity data (the percentages of none, low, moderate, and severe) are not treated properly. In common tongue, the data may not meet those assumptions for the analyses. In a technical sense, much of the data is either comprised of discrete counts or data of unclear statistical properties. Having higher mycotoxins in the GM feed may indicate that it has been in storage longer, perhaps too long, which could result in other compositional changes. They seem to use a mish mash of test types, each which has different statistical assumptions behind them. Yet another, and worse, objection has to do with the actual analyses they used. There are formal statistical methods for doing this, but they apparently did not use them.