There is a difference, however, between not fully understanding a mechanism and, as with homeopathy, violating basic laws of physics. Higher dilutions follow the same pattern. The principles of homeopathy run contrary to modern science and have never been empirically established. Animals may be treated only by qualified veterinary surgeons in the UK and some other countries. The first symptomatic homeopathic materia medica was arranged by Hahnemann.  Positive results are much more likely to be false if the prior probability of the claim under test is low. Let people buy what they want, but tell them the truth about what they are buying. In such cases it is necessary to demonstrate using carefully controlled clinical trials that such treatments do in fact work. The "Ignatia Type," for example, is said to be nervous and often tearful, and to dislike tobacco smoke. At first he used small doses of accepted medications. The FDA cited the growth of sales of over-the-counter homeopathic medicines, which was $2.7 billion for 2007. Those medicines are formulated according to a number of what we may loosely call "laws." The volunteers were observed for months at a time and made to keep extensive journals detailing all of their symptoms at specific times throughout the day. Homeopathy is a pseudoscience – a belief that is incorrectly presented as scientific. It found little agreement between the individual homeopaths and a heavy reliance on intuition in judgments about the effects of the substance tested. The goal of a homeopathic consultation is to find the “totality of symptoms,” physical, mental, and spiritual.  Not all homeopaths advocate high dilutions. A homeopathic repertory is an index of disease symptoms that lists preparations associated with specific symptoms. Hahnemann also developed, as the underpinning of homeopathy, his own theory of disease, called the miasm theory. However, the company, which was re-named Heel Inc in 1985, continued to make illegal claims. Upon replication in four separate laboratories the study was published. Homeopaths conclude from this fact that the substance is transferring its essence to the water into which it is diluted. People who are considering whether to use homeopathy should first get advice from a registered health practitioner. This law states that when drugs are diluted in either water or alcohol, they actually increase in therapeutic potency. However, there is no indication that the agency is considering this. The authors concluded that "the results of the available randomized trials suggest that individualized homeopathy has an effect over placebo. Samuel Hahnemann (1755-1843), a German physician, began formulating homeopathy's basic principles in the late 1700s.