 Using the principles of evidence-based medicine to research acupuncture is controversial, and has produced different results. Due to acupuncture's invasive nature, one of the major challenges in efficacy research is in the design of an appropriate placebo control group.  Sham acupuncture and research  It is difficult but not impossible to design rigorous research trials for acupuncture. A systematic review of systematic reviews found little evidence of acupuncture's effectiveness in treating pain. All good doctors are empathetic and patient-centered. Patients will be randomly selected to receive either weekly sessions of acupuncture or standard care for six weeks. Since most pain is felt in the superficial layers of the skin, a quick insertion of the needle is recommended. Acupuncture can be painful. There is insufficient evidence to support use of acupuncture compared to mainstream medical treatments. And whose fault is this? Published online September 10, 2012. doi:10.1001/archinternmed.2012.3654. doi:10.1371/journal.pmed.1001308  2 Vickers AJ, Cronin AM, Maschino AC, et al. Acupuncture for Chronic Pain: Individual Patient Data Meta-analysis. We also know that the belief in the effectiveness of a therapy affects the efficacy of the therapy. This study will do neither. One method of isolating the placebo effect is to have a third group in the trial that receives neither the experimental drug nor the placebo pill. With the current state of the evidence, I do not think we should be recommending acupuncture to our patients. Furthermore, some people are more susceptible to the placebo effect than others and this may be genetic (Furmark 2008). A number of studies have shown that there is a placebo effect and that different people respond differently to placebos. Some or all of the effect could be caused by "false impressions of placebo effects," such as regression to the mean (Kienle and Kiene 1997). If they are not carefully designed, we may mistakenly attribute causal effectiveness to both the chemical substance and the placebo. Such trials, however, tell us nothing about the mechanisms of the placebo effect. We have a responsibility to educate them, but not to make decisions for them. Conflict of interest statement  I have no conflicts of interest to report. On the other hand, if patients ask about it and want to try it, we should not try to stop them. (The group getting the active pill is called the experimental group and the group getting the placebo is called the control group.) To know that, it is necessary to determine if there was a placebo effect and, if so, what it was. With this information, they can then make their own informed decision. Is there any reason not to hold acupuncture to the same standards? These effects occur for all types of healing, alternative as well as scientific medicine. However, it cannot be determined from that data alone just how effective the drug is. It is known that placebos can have physiological and psychological effects. Most important is that the placebo and nocebo effects themselves have become the focus of study. She was dead within 2 hours. Other factors might confound a causal study, as well. In 1997, Kienle and Kiene published an evaluation of the 1955 seminal placebo study by H. K. Beecher, "The Powerful Placebo." The therapy worked but it was impractical. After several hours, however, she was back to where she was before the treatments. She got temporary relief from her pain. Each acupuncture treatment would leave her groggy and unsteady on her feet. My wife was treated for facial pain with acupuncture (among several other therapies) at Kaiser Permanente in Sacramento. I have seen this effect first-hand. As noted above, it is likely that acupuncture and sham acupuncture have an opioid effect. scientific studies of acupuncture  The most common claim of success by acupuncture advocates is in the area of pain relief.