The patient was admitted to hospital the next day, and died eight days later, the final diagnosis being "acute heart failure due to treatment discontinuation".  Positive results are much more likely to be false if the prior probability of the claim under test is low.  "Provings"  Hahnemann began to test what effects substances produced in humans, a procedure that would later become known as "homeopathic proving". In other words, drugs which cause specific symptoms can be used to cure diseases which cause the same symptoms. A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled proving trial of Belladonna 30C. The Horizon scientists repeated Professor Ennis's experiments under strictly controlled conditions. These treatments often worsened symptoms and sometimes proved fatal. Many so-called "homeopathic vaccines" are a form of isopathy. All reported positive results but none could offer any science backing up their statements, only that "it works". It would take overwhelmingly rigorous and positive clinical evidence to call into question long established principles of basic science. The evidence base for any other practice is irrelevant to homeopathy, but even that aside his argument is a curious one.  Hahnemann's concept  The term "homeopathy" was coined by Hahnemann and first appeared in print in 1807. For homeopaths, it was a crushing defeat. The experiment revealed that homeopathy has no physiological effect on the body. Professor Ennis repeated the test and got the same result. Publication bias has been particularly marked in alternative medicine journals, where few of the published articles (just 5% during the year 2000) tend to report null results. Homeopathy should not be used to treat health conditions that are chronic, serious, or could become serious.  Practitioners of homeopathy hold that higher dilutions―described as being of higher potency―produce stronger medicinal effects. In March 2012, Boiron agreed to spend up to $12 million to settle the claims of falsely advertising the benefits of its homeopathic preparations.  In the Committee's view, homeopathy is a placebo treatment and the Government should have a policy on prescribing placebos. The Secretary of State for Health deferred to local NHS on funding homeopathy, in the name of patient choice. In July 2017, as part of a plan to save £200m a year by preventing the "misuse of scarce" funding,the NHS announced that it would no longer provide homeopathic medicines. The National Health Service in England has announced a policy of not funding homeopathic medicine because it is "a misuse of resources".  Flower preparations  Flower preparations can be produced by placing flowers in water and exposing them to sunlight. There is no legitimate controversy about this. There is no convincing scientific or clinical evidence for flower preparations being effective. Decades of research have failed to provide supporting evidence for any application of homeopathy.