However, soon after this Dr. Burzynski’s funding was decreased: then it was discontinued. It always has–at least, if you listen to people like Mike Adams, that is. Moreover, none of these claims makes much sense on a strictly logical basis. Based on animal data and preliminary human studies, it has also been claimed to cause tumor regression and subjective improvement in patients. Suzy, I’m a faithful reader, do you think this is safe? You can be sure that quite a few of those supposedly nefarious cancer researchers, government bureaucrats, and big pharma executives would too. So this is what she did:  I began looking at the different ways I may have contributed to the manifestation of my disease and then stopped doing them. Not so coincidentally (to me, at least) 1977 was also the year that Burzynski left Baylor to form his own research institute. Unfortunately, it’s more than just one story. Of course, that is with treatment with surgery; without surgery, five year survival is 35% and ten year survival is 33%. I felt so healthy, and I looked healthy. It’s hard to imagine having to lose one’s arm at age 22 as the only chance to survive. A family spokesman was quoted as saying: "His cancer was under control after undergoing alternative treatment in Mexico. Since 2009, unfortunately Ainscough has built quite the woo empire for herself. Coffee enemas are used by holistic physicians for all sorts of conditions including cancer. All had advanced cancers for which no proven treatment was known. During the mid-1980s, several of his patients developed serious infections following IAT. Certainly over the more than four decades of my existence, I have had multiple family members who have died of cancer. In actuality, whether the secret of these “natural cures” is well or poorly kept seems to vary with the needs of the advocate telling the story. Note the religious overtones to this plot device holding the movie together. Are they satisfied because they have objective, unbiased evidence that the therapy is effective? Gerson’s rationale for the enemas was that they helped to stimulate the flow of bile, thereby increasing the rate of excretion of toxic products from the body. The FDA has banned their importation and seized products from several U.S. Their extensive searches of the published literature failed to find clinical evidence supporting any of the diets. The NCI evaluated case reports submitted by Hoxsey and concluded that no assessment was possible because the records did not contain adequate information. None of this made any sense to me. Basically, there is no statistical evidence, because alternative cancer clinics are not about rigorous science and tracking of patient outcomes. For some doctors “positive results” means simply that the patient dies in one month rather than in two weeks. Lumps in breasts are not the issue. The conventional view of cancer does not find any evidence for the view that removing "toxins" is effective for treating cancer. This tumor is so rare that there just aren’t a lot of data about it. In other words, she’s another case in which the quackery didn’t save her; she was fortunate enough to have slowly progressing disease. If we hadn’t gone to the Gerson clinic or spoken to fellow Gerson patients, I don’t think we would have been quite as prepared for what she’s been going through. I guess I have been lucky because my flare-ups have been quite mild. As angry as this makes me, surprisingly I still don’t have it in my heart to be too hard on Ainscough. These are both conclusions that Ainscough would likely find too painful to accept. She recommended coffee enemas. I’d love to know what really happened in the years leading up to 1977 that led to his leaving Baylor. So now, not surprisingly, the filmmaker (through Garrett) has a mission:  Garrett’s mission now is to tell the world. Although her sarcoma is very likely to result in her demise; it may not happen for several more years. The recipe for a coffee enema is different than the beverage.