(This essay was sent to Dr. Gish to solicit any further arguments against the points made here. Some may include RNA species that function without being translated into protein. Islands can mean isolated lakes or remote and isolated areas. (For a recent review, see Prak and Kazazian, Nature Reviews, 1:134, 2000.) A similar mechanism spreads LINEs and SINEs, including Alu insertions. Edward Max responds to Plaisted The author of this essay has written a response to Plaisted. First he estimates, very generously, how much entropy is decreased per individual. The article nicely summarizes the general problems with the creationist claim. 5.7 In addition to Dr. Gish, creationist John Woodmorappe has commented on pseudogenes (Noah's Ark, a Feasibility Study, 1996, published by ICR, p. (See also Cost and Boeke, Biochemistry 37:18081, 1998). I try to show how they provide evidence for evolution that is both convincing and conceptually simple enough for the interested layperson to appreciate. In urban environments, seeds that float far often land on infertile concrete. The three lizard species previously mentioned have been found to display variable social signal coloration in coexistence with their ecotonal variants. (If these shared pseudogenes arose after the "Fall" as suggested by Woodmorappe, did the "Fall" perhaps occur before man diverged from the apes?) I knew we kept physicists around for something; they are so useful for filling in the tricky details. Of the many type of retroposons known to molecular biologists, I will mention four major classes found in human DNA. No reply was received.) There are twenty different kinds of amino acids used in proteins, and most proteins contain hundreds of these subunits. He makes several of the same arguments as Dr. Gish (see 5.2 and 5.4 above) but adds a few of his own. Marsupials like kangaroos, bandicoots, and quolls make up about half of Australia's indigenous mammal species. The only living representatives of primitive egg-laying mammals (monotremes) are the echidnas and the platypus.  Transition from fish to amphibians [ edit ]  Prior to 2004, paleontologists had found fossils of amphibians with necks, ears, and four legs, in rock no older than 365 million years old. This initial transcript of RNA undergoes several structural alterations, known collectively as "processing," before it is used to assemble amino acids. This prediction was stated in earlier versions of the present essay. Remember this tendency from order to disorder applies to all real processes. These observations have led to the evolutionist view that whales evolved from a four-legged artiodactyl ancestor that lived on land. The 12 have been growing ever since, gradually accumulating mutations and evolving for more than 44,000 generations, while Lenski watches what happens. Considerable effort has gone into comparing the sequences of similar proteins isolated from different species. He has rehashed many of the false arguments that I have already rebutted in section 5. If this were true, these two species would not be expected to carry a defective copy of the GLO gene. I am posting it with permission from Creation/Evolution .  In a later study by David Reznick, the field population was examined 11 years later after Endler relocated the guppies to high streams. This conclusion in turn implies that significant novel characteristics (e.g. Indeed, one might ask: why then are our chromosomes not stuffed with retroposon sequences at an even higher frequency than actually observed? This fact would predict that retroposon insertions must be occurring at some frequency even today.