The acupuncture needles were purely cosmetic. As a result, more research has been done on acupuncture than on just about any other fringe practice. 3 Avins AL. Needling the Status Quo: Comment on “Acupuncture for Chronic Pain”. What does this mean? Qi and meridians are vitalisitic notions without any evidence to support them. I suspect, however, human nature being what it is, that this will not happen anytime soon. The authors acknowledge this problem in their paper, but crucially, not in their abstract. Blinding in trials of acupuncture is notoriously hard. Modern acupuncture is largely a New Age invention that draws on much simpler Chinese ritualistic surgical techniques. But the practitioners are not blinded as is usual in blinded experiments (hence ‘double-blind’). Can we finally just say that acupuncture is nothing more than an elaborate placebo? Believers in acupuncture will not be pleased. Permission to translate the article is not granted.  According to historians Lu Gwei-djen and Joseph Needham, there is substantial evidence that acupuncture may have begun around 600 BC. In more than one recent study, researchers have chosen not to use a sham acupuncture control group.  A 2014 systematic review reached inconclusive results with regard to the effectiveness of acupuncture for treating cancer-related fatigue. Acupuncture, aromatherapy, or a homeopathic remedy for a cold probably won't do anyone any harm. The same review found that the strength of the evidence for both conditions was low to moderate. (emphasis added)  Furthermore, the study cited had no control groups and was very small (34 patients). As you might expect, it is a lot more complicated than headlines would suggest. After the Chinese Civil War, the Chinese Communist Party ridiculed Traditional Chinese Medicine, including acupuncture, as superstitious. Research has shown that acupuncture is little more than such a straw. 1920) who worked with thin steel needles but Soulié himself had rather thick needles made by a Parisian jeweler. How should we read a scientific paper? Soulié imitated a Japanese acupuncture innovator (ca. The authors defined spin as the overestimation and overinterpretation of treatment benefits from RCTs. It doesn’t, and it is. Well, the authors have no one to blame but themselves, and if I missed the description of how that was calculated I’ll take my lumps. As they say, garbage in, garbage out. I expect a hostile response and am wondering if Ernst and I should invest in needle-proof vests. Ernst et al.18 point out that the positive studies conclude that acupuncture relieves pain in some conditions but not in other very similar conditions. PAIN 2011 Apr; 152(4): 711-712  © 2011 International Association for the Study of Pain. There were only four conditions for which more than one systematic review reached the same conclusions, and only one of the four was positive (neck pain). Clinical research can never prove that an intervention has an effect size of zero. This has profound clinical, ethical, scientific, and practical implications. We should consider this a lesson learned, cut our losses, and move on. It seems that acupuncture is little or no more than a theatrical placebo. After Reston’s report, acupuncture quickly became popular in the West. There are other problems, but let’s first discuss what the study showed. I don't think this is a major obstacle, especially if those getting the sham acupuncture can't tell whether they are getting real acupuncture. In addition, subjects who do not feel like they are getting any pain relief might conclude that they are getting the placebo treatment and drop out. Subjects do drop out of studies, and this could be a major problem if they are in pain and are getting no relief. They may have joined the study more to alleviate their pain than to aid science.