This means that waters whose pH differs from 7 are never "pure" in the chemical sense. Even the purest rainwater contains some hydrogen- and bicarbonate ions that are formed when it picks up carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. The pH of blood is especially critical and must be maintained within the range of about 7.35 - 7.45. Chronic acidosis or alkylosis can be very serious and is often associated with kidney failure. This is believed despite the fact that food doesn't significantly affect the pH of either venous or arterial blood. Overall, the acid-ash hypothesis of osteoporosis is not supported by physiology, clinical trials, or observational data. So no matter what you eat, the food in the stomach is acidic and the food in the intestines is alkaline. Temporary alkylosis can be induced by hyperventilation, causing excess release of CO 2 . In other words, regardless of what you eat or what your urine pH is, you can be pretty confident that your blood pH is hovering around a comfortable 7.4. This hypothesis, often referred to as the ‘acid-ash hypothesis of osteoporosis,’ is what I will discuss for the rest of this article. True, it is possible for water to contain dissolved ions (electrically-charged atoms or molecules), but that's something else again. Almost all waters found in nature acquire ions such as calcium and bicarbonate as they come into contact with rocks and sediments. "* Different foods do, however, affect the pH of urine, which is confined to the bladder. It's not true that the acidity of the body can be changed significantly by diet. "Homeostatic mechanisms keep the acidity of the blood stream within a narrow range. It is pure, deceptive sales hype. Here is a summary of some of the more common claims with my comments. If you add minerals with OH- then pH goes up. Social and judgmental biases that make inert treatments seem to work by Barry L. Beyerstein  Why Health Professionals Become Quacks by William T. Jarvis, Ph.D. If you add minerals with more H than OH the pH goes down. Alkaline water is water with a pH higher than 7.0    The pH of water is the difference between how much hydrogen (h+) water has vs. how much hydroxyl (oh-) water has. Also see : expensive ways to buy water (good article from science based medicine)    What is Alkaline water? The simplest reason that you know Alkaline water is a scam is that the stomach is always acid. In short and based on actual science, raising the alkalinity of water doesn't do much for you.