After the injunction in 1983, Burzynski had applied to the FDA to begin clinical trials, but the agency said his application was incomplete. I spent most of my first day at Burzynski’s clinic sitting in the large waiting room with three dozen other cancer patients and their families. Yet after my experience with Burzynski I felt grateful to be monitored so closely. However, these techniques are expensive and not yet as common and practical as cDNA microarrays. I am never quite sure what to say. It fit snugly into a blue tote the size of a camera case. “If you convict the doctor,” asked Ted Koppel on “Nightline,” “are you sentencing his patients to death?”  Meanwhile, my side effects worsened. I can see both sides of the argument, for I have lived them. Amazingly, all said taking antineoplastons had led to a significant decrease in tumor size if not a complete and lasting remission. I called everyone I knew, relaying the news as tears of relief dripped onto my IV bag. The relevance of many of these recommendations to breast cancer is questionable, to say the least. From A-10, antineoplaston AS2-1 was derived – a 4:1 mixture of phenylacetic acid and phenylacetylglutamine. :138  Burzynski founded the Burzynski Research Institute in 1984. We tracked down a dozen who had used or were using his treatment for the same diagnosis as mine. I also experienced my first side effects: I couldn’t eat because my stomach was churning, and I was too tired for anything much besides reading in bed. Suddenly I was experiencing the drug development process as it was meant to be. Yet the words of the patients I’d spoken with before coming to Houston echoed in my head, compelling me to begin. The latter is particularly popular and was recently adopted by the ACS. The complete Burzynski series: Two years later the FDA raided his clinic, taking patients’ CAT scans, MRIs, and other records. Others restocked by flying to Texas frequently with several empty suitcases. Had I only known then what I do now. The authors then tried their strategy on two actual patients, one with colorectal cancer and one with melanoma. The topic of the hearing was whether my doctor, Stanislaw Burzynski, could keep treating patients with the drug that seemed to be ridding me of cancer. Then I phoned Burzynski’s clinic and spoke with the clinical trials director, Dean Mouscher. You would get a CAT scan after you had been on the treatment six weeks. SB: No, this is not chemotherapy. We tracked down a dozen who had used or were using his treatment for the same diagnosis as mine. Most (85%) patients discovered the lump accidentally. Initially he developed antineoplastons using his own urine; eventually he had gallons of urine shipped from public urinals. She and her husband […] repeatedly complained to clinic personnel. I hurriedly phoned the clinic, asking to have six months of medication reserved for me. Since the late 1970s, when he founded his clinic, Dr. Burzynski has been using antineoplastons to treat cancer. Burzynski through his current attorney denied all charges. Burzynski was acquitted because he had not personally written the prescriptions. Most obvious, it was filled with reporters and TV news crews, their lights bombarding us all. Contrast this to the clinical trials I mentioned above, where patients do not pay for the genomic profiling or chemotherapy. since 1984 but is not approved for general use. But the likelihood of my being able to continue the treatment was shrinking as well. But, at age 21, waiting was not easy. Burzynski has since produced the compounds synthetically. “Do you know how much paperwork the FDA wanted?” he asked me. But he’d be willing to try. Despite the ruling, it was no secret that the majority of Burzynski’s patients were not from Texas. My insurance agreed to pay half.