Mutant gene variants are passed from parent to offspring, and advantageous mutations spread through future generations in that way. A conceptually similar example in human DNA is provided by odorant receptor DNA sequences: about 70% are of these sequences are pseudogenes, reflecting the nearly vestigial status of our olfactory perception in comparison to that of other species [Rouquier et al., Nat Genet 18:243,1998; Rouquier, et al. Human Molec Genet &:1337,1998;Sharon et al., Genomics 61:24,1999; Rouquier et al., PNAS 97:2871,2000; Glusman et al, Genome Res 11:685, 2001].) The emergence and evolution of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus . A “gigantic increase in order and complexity” … how interesting. Some genes are encoded on one strand, while other genes lie on the other strand. These rudimentary structures are often homologous to structures that correspond in related or ancestral species. These reconstructed phylogenies recapitulate the relationships established through morphological and biochemical studies. Another noteworthy example is the familiar vertebrate body plan, whose structure is controlled by the homeobox (Hox) family of genes. Presumably, immediately after duplication each gene copy had an identical sequence. These observations have led to the evolutionist view that whales evolved from a four-legged artiodactyl ancestor that lived on land. LINE insertions in the mnd2 region of chromosome 2p13 [Jang et al, Genome Res 9:51, 1998] and near the CD4 gene at human chromosome 12p13 [Ansari-Lari et al Genome Res 8:29, 1998]). This evidence for a common ancestor clinches the argument for human/ape evolution that follows from shared functionless sequences. As in the copyright cases discussed earlier, such shared "errors" indicate that copying of some sort must have occurred. This argument can be understood by analogy with the legal cases discussed earlier in which shared errors were recognized as proof of copying. Such observations are consistent with the insertion of such Alu copies after the evolution of humans. Some of the reported examples are shared by species as disparate as human and cow, indicating insertions in very early mammalian ancestors. Specific SINE insertions can act as "tracers" that illuminate phylogenetic relationships. Several examples of insertions of the "youngest" family are known to be polymorphic in the human population: i.e., they occur in some individuals but not others. The same is true of the seven Alu sequences near a pseudogene derived from the single-copy cdc27hs gene (Gonzalez et al., Genomics 18:29, 1993). Of the roughly one million copies of Alu sequences in the human genome, only a small fraction have been compared between human and other primate species. The steroid 21-hydroxylase gene encodes an enzyme involved in metabolism of steroid hormones. There are many examples of shared pseudogenes of this type; I will describe only one. Readers are invited to let me know about additional unitary pseudogenes.) flavin-containing monooxygenase-2 (FMO2) [J Biol Chem 273:30599, 1998], CMP- N-acetylneuraminic acid hydroxylase [Hayakawa et al.,PNAS 98:11399, 2001] and the V10 variable gene of the human T-cell receptor gamma locus [Zhang et al., Immunogenetics 43:196, 1996]. Recently retroposon evidence has solidified the evolutionary relationship between whales and artiodactyls. With the advent of molecular markers, "hybridization [is] considerably more frequent than previously More recent insertions B and C are present only in ruminants, hippopotamus and cetaceans. Note added May 5, 2003: An example of a pseudogene with documented function has just been reported. This fact would predict that retroposon insertions must be occurring at some frequency even today. The hundreds of thousands of remaining examples on this list would continue to offer valid support for evolution. Our present knowledge supports the interpretation that most shared pseudogenes/retroposons are evidence for common descent and macroevolution. It is true that later evidence may exonerate a convicted criminal or overturn a scientific theory. Scientists (and juries) must draw their conclusions based on the best evidence available at the time. This defense would be as ridiculous as Dr. Gish's argument is. It is possible that future studies will discover some other pseudogenes with apparent function (but see the next section).