[citation needed] But since it is not transcribed, it may disappear without affecting fitness, unless it has provided some beneficial function as non-coding DNA. Finally, several examples are known of pairs of species that have similar apparent complexity but widely different genome size (C-value paradox). The interesting question is: “How does a real biological process, which goes from order to disorder, result in evolution. Evidence from comparative physiology and biochemistry [ edit ]  Genetics [ edit ]  One of the strongest evidences for common descent comes from gene sequences. In both cases, mere similarity between the contents of the alleged copies and the originals was not considered compelling evidence of copying. If this were true, these two species would not be expected to carry a defective copy of the GLO gene. Sometimes, however, mutations critically damage the function of a gene. Microbes [ edit ]  Antimicrobial resistance [ edit ]  The development and spread of antibiotic-resistant bacteria is evidence for the process of evolution of species. Since there are 64 different triplets (each called a codon) and only 20 amino acids to specify, some amino acids are represented by more than one triplet (e.g.  The presence of vestigial telomeres. A careful examination of Woodmorappe's references shows that many of them do not support the conclusions he claims they do. We can just plug in our estimated (grossly overestimated!) Islands can mean isolated lakes or remote and isolated areas. Many genetic differences between closely related species are thought to represent such random inconsequential mutations. The right panels illustrate the two pathways generating the classical duplicated pseudogene (top) and processed pseudogene (bottom). The mature processed RNA is then translated into a chain of amino acids to form a protein. The same is true of the seven Alu sequences near a pseudogene derived from the single-copy cdc27hs gene (Gonzalez et al., Genomics 18:29, 1993). [citation needed] This is an example of a vestige since replicating these genes uses energy, making it a waste in many cases. The analysis, originally done by Carl Woese, resulted in the three-domain system, arguing for two major splits in the early evolution of life. Finally, pseudogenes are a rich source of data because they are abundant.  The cytochrome c molecule has been extensively studied for the glimpse it gives into evolutionary biology. Multiple forms of such have been described and documented as examples for individual modes of speciation. Especially is such a question vital, when we are thinking of evolution as a growth process on the grand scale from atom to Adam and from particle to people. (This essay was sent to Dr. Gish to solicit any further arguments against the points made here. Often, mutations are inconsequential: e.g. Processed pseudogenes should not be confused with a small number of retroposed gene copies that are actually functional genes. i. Some mutations may have no effect on the functioning of the gene. Numerous pseudogenes of this type have been found in DNA from a variety of organisms, including humans. One class includes "pseudogenes," or damaged non-functional copies of genes. The evolutionary history of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). The changing epidemiology of Staphylococcus aureus ? The examples below are only a small fraction of the actual experiments and observations. At the top left the Figure shows a chromosome as it appears just before cell division, looking like two hot dogs tied together at the centromere. I hope to respond to the Woodmorappe essay in more detail in a future rebuttal that will be linked here. Like any retroposon, this class could have entered the germline DNA (i.e.