Related and minority treatments and practices  Isopathy  Isopathy is a therapy derived from homeopathy, invented by Johann Joseph Wilhelm Lux in the 1830s. He does this by cherry picking positive studies (which are part of the noise of any clinical research), a common strategy.  In August 2011, a class action lawsuit was filed against Boiron on behalf of "all California residents who purchased Oscillo at any time within the past four years". A homeopathic preparation made from marsh tea : the "15C" dilution shown here means the original solution was diluted to 1/10of its original strength. The results were mystifying. They recommended that funding of homeopathic hospitals should not continue, and NHS doctors should not refer patients to homeopaths. The Chief Medical Officer for England, Dame Sally Davies, has stated that homeopathic preparations are "rubbish" and do not serve as anything more than placebos. Even reviews that desperately try to spin the results in a positive way in the end show there is no evidence to support the efficacy of homeopathy. Worse for homeopathy, there is a clear pattern in the research. Hahnemann rejected the notion of a disease as a separate thing or invading entity, and insisted it was always part of the "living whole". The last school in the US exclusively teaching homeopathy closed in 1920. The magazine dubbed that unlucky bird "the $20-million duck." Its press release attributed the decision to two class-action suits that has caused a "substantial financial burden." This may be due to improper preparation or intentional low dilution. :255–6 Several of the key concepts of homeopathy conflict with fundamental concepts of physics and chemistry. The law of infinitesimal doses was actually a late development by Hahnemann, but today is often thought of as the primary characteristic of homeopathy. As such, the marketing claims for these products are likely misleading, in violation of the FTC Act. In fact there are efforts within mainstream medicine to reduce the use of antibiotics in URTI, and to eliminate their routine use.  "Provings"  Hahnemann began to test what effects substances produced in humans, a procedure that would later become known as "homeopathic proving". This limit, which is related to Avogadro's number, is roughly equal to homeopathic dilutions of 12C or 24X (1 part in 1024). 200CK is a 200C preparation made using the Korsakovian method. Hahnemann created the "centesimal" or "C scale", diluting a substance by a factor of 100 at each stage. Hahnemann coined the expression "allopathic medicine", which was used to pejoratively refer to traditional Western medicine. The most famous of these are the Bach flower remedies, which were developed by the physician and homeopath Edward Bach.  Flower preparations  Flower preparations can be produced by placing flowers in water and exposing them to sunlight. calendula and arnica creams) do contain pharmacologically active doses. Homeopathy uses animal, plant, mineral, and synthetic substances in its preparations, generally referring to them using Latin or faux-Latin names.