The dead ones, like Sacramento TV newswoman Pat Davis, aren't here to give their testimonials. Based on animal data and preliminary human studies, it has also been claimed to cause tumor regression and subjective improvement in patients. So this is what she did:  I began looking at the different ways I may have contributed to the manifestation of my disease and then stopped doing them. Even so, as noted below in the case of famous comedian Pat Paulsen, the ones left behind may have no problem rationalizing failure. An official press release on his death claimed he died from pneumonia, not cancer. Since the Gerson therapy is not an effective treatment for cancer, what we are looking at is basically the natural history of the disease. We really don’t know. It is important to know why the customers are satisfied. Nor were there blogs and Twitter and Facebook. And because I’m still on the therapy myself, my amazing dad has stepped into the carer role as well (while still working six days a week). The conventional view of cancer does not find any evidence for the view that removing "toxins" is effective for treating cancer. It’s very, very hard to say. However, communication between Burton and U.S. Greek Cancer Cure  The principal proponent of the Greek Cancer Cure was microbiologist Dr. Hariton-Tzannis Alivizatos, of Athens, Greece, who died in 1991. Although clinic personnel later said they would follow their patients systematically, there is no published evidence that they have done so. V.A., Seattle, Washington Answer: Yes. Yet, he has achieved more than seemed possible under adverse conditions. An imbalance in the concentration of these substances contributes to the internal environment supporting the growth of tumors, Gerson believed. Selection bias is a major flaw in the evidence for so-called alternative treatments. He attached great importance to the elimination of "toxins" from the body and to the role of a healthy liver in recovery. Five-year survival and ten-year survival rate for patients with epithelioid sarcoma are approximately 50-70% and 42-55% respectively. Her story is yet to be finished, but her mother Sharyn’s story is over:  As many of you know, my Mum had breast cancer for the past few years. Autointoxication beliefs are not only wrong, but they are demonstrably dangerous. So now we’re the new targets of people like Gary Null. He also asserted that his "serum" enabled the patient's immune system to destroy cancer cells, and helped the body rejuvenate parts destroyed by cancer. Who remembered porn was so expensive back in 1979? The articles I came across were actually from a rather surprising source: Penthouse magazine. (Remember, after all, that 1979 was the year that Led Zeppelin released its last album, In Through the Out Door, and The Cars released their second album, Candy-O.) Sorry, such subjective evidence isn't sufficient to warrant an investigation. It’s the story of the daughter as well, who, although she has cancer, is still alive. He leaves a legacy which commands attention and which will assure him his due place. Mother and son believe that Howard's wife was cured of cancer by Gerson therapy. "* Gerson believed that caffeine would act as a detoxifier by stimulating the liver. However, the notion is unsubstantiated that once cancer has been established, detoxification by diet and enemas is effective in fighting the disease. What there are, though, are numerous stories told by people who think they have had their cancer, or some other disease, cured by the Gerson regimen. Charlotte Gerson claims that treatment at the clinic has produced high cure rates for many cancers. I suppose that, in retrospect, I should not be quite so surprised. At the 5-year mark, only one was still alive (but not cancer-free); the rest had succumbed to their cancer. Oh, the horror of obsolescence! Why my mum refused to have her breast tissue biopsied. The combined effect of these treatment components was intended to "normalize the biological function of damaged cells."