Remember this tendency from order to disorder applies to all real processes. Throughout the fossil record, many species that appear at an early stratigraphic level disappear at a later level. Essentially, both experiments showed convergence due to similar selection pressures (i.e. Dr. Gish used this appeal to the audience at a recent debate with me. In one early example, William Dallinger set up an experiment shortly before 1880, subjecting microbes to heat with the aim of forcing adaptive changes. Many of the best-known proteins are found only in specific differentiated tissues and are not expressed elsewhere. Evolutionary theory suggests that the Australian marsupials descended from the older ones found in the Americas. However, a recent study suggests an earlier, transient bridge existed 13 to 15 mya. All adaptations—documented and undocumented changes concerned—are caused by natural selection (and a few other minor processes). A pseudogene can be produced when a coding gene accumulates mutations that prevent it from being transcribed, making it non-functional. The genes for such tissue-specific proteins are almost never transcribed in germ cells, and so they only rarely contribute to processed pseudogenes. (D) Piercing and sucking, female mosquito . It has been suggested that this is due to the descent of the testicles during the course of human evolution—likely associated with temperature. Indeed, the inability to use citrate is one of the traits by which bacteriologists distinguish E. coli from other species. see Elgar et al. Genome Res 9:960, 1999). For example:  In monkeys, the forelimbs are much elongated, forming a grasping hand used for climbing and swinging among trees. Such a sequence can be determined because fossils are mainly found in sedimentary rock. The modifications enable the insects to exploit a variety of food materials. Scientists postulate one of the reasons for the rapid selection of this genetic variant is the lethality of the disease in non-immune persons. This is not the case. I knew we kept physicists around for something; they are so useful for filling in the tricky details. The right panels illustrate the two pathways generating the classical duplicated pseudogene (top) and processed pseudogene (bottom). The principle that duplicated errors imply copying is now well established in copyright law. The examples below are only a small fraction of the actual experiments and observations. The changes in the teeth can be explained by assuming that the diet changed from soft vegetation to grass. No reply was received.) The gag gene encodes additional proteins necessary for processing the viral components. It can even be traced back to the fins of certain fossil fishes from which the first amphibians evolved such as tiktaalik. The current hawthorn feeding population does not normally feed on apples. Often, mutations are inconsequential: e.g. : Endler's Trinadadian guppies ().  Research documenting speciation is abundant. The agreement of evolutionary trees constructed from such completely different sorts of data (e.g. A large variety of organism's genomes contain a small fraction of genes that control the organisms development. Centuries are awkward units, so Styer converts that to something more conventional: the entropy change per second is -3.02 x 10-30 J/K.