The doctors here say it can't. Antioxidant supplements may actually increase mortality* and aggravate cancer. Laboratory tests conducted between 1978 and 1991 by the NCI found no evidence that CanCell was effective against cancer. Her book Cure for All Cancers, contains 103 case histories of her supposed cancer cures. Two weeks later, he was hospitalized with signs of kidney and liver failure. Tabebuia woods contains lapachol, which has been demonstrated to have antitumor activity in a few animal tumor models. If we hadn’t gone to the Gerson clinic or spoken to fellow Gerson patients, I don’t think we would have been quite as prepared for what she’s been going through. It doesn’t work, period. In 1986, however, investigators learned that patients were not monitored after they left the facility. Her story is yet to be finished, but her mother Sharyn’s story is over:  As many of you know, my Mum had breast cancer for the past few years. Gerson therapy is still available at Hospital Meridien in Tijuana, Mexico and, since February 1997, at the Gerson Healing Center in Sedona, Arizona. More importantly, through my blogging and visits to meetings like TAM, I’ve made contact with a lot of Australian skeptics, both online and face-to-face. She was even ready to have the surgery, but her doctors came to her at the last minute with an alternative, which was to do isolated limb perfusion. Germanium products have caused irreversible kidney damage and death. It all sounds so mundane and science-based. Her whole family was in the room, my dad and I were holding her hands and Edie was at the foot of her bed. Essiac  Essiac is an herbal remedy that was prescribed and promoted for about 50 years by Rene M. Caisse, a Canadian nurse who died in 1978. In 1990, experts who reviewed the chapter manuscript found no evidence of benefit. If they can't prove that a patient had a tumor, received nothing but the Gerson treatment, and then the tumor went away, then they can't prove they cured a cancer. When he was diagnosed with brain and colon cancer, his wife Noma was quoted in press reports as saying that the doctor in Tijuana "is confident it can be cured. Be that as it may, it’s hard not to feel great sympathy for Ainscough. It can also cause people to feel ashamed or guilty that some inner inadequacy caused them to develop cancer and is interfering with their recovery. Actually, urine therapy has been used as a folk remedy for cancer and other ailments for over 2,000 years. Information posted by supporters suggests that life was shortened because she treated herself rather than seeking timely and appropriate medical care. Based on his interpretation of a hair test, Gonzalez prescribed up to 150 dietary supplement pills a day plus frequent coffee enemas. Several animal tests using samples of Essiac have shown no antitumor activity. The surface tension of urine has no medically recognized diagnostic value. As science journalism declined, science and medical blogging rushed in to fill the void as best as it could. Now let’s go back to the beginning. It’s a tumor of young adults, which fits with Ainscough’s presentation, and it nearly always appears on the upper extremities. The promoter claimed that cancerous cells have an "atypical metabolic mechanism that made them "susceptible to polarizing electromagnetic fields." The more things change…  Does ACS still hold its Science Writers’ Seminar? However, he never published the results of any well-designed study testing his ideas. He died in January 1998 at the age of 101. No wonder Eric Merola, in his propaganda movie for Stanislaw Burzynski, so viciously goes after skeptical bloggers. It’s very, very hard to say. Why Mum is so confident that Gerson Therapy will work. Before I delve into this tragic tale, let me first provide a bit of background. Somehow, I doubt that there was any sort of grand conspiracy by The Man to keep Burzynski down. This photo on Facebook from December shows sores and large tumors on her arm. The therapy is named for its developer, Max Gerson, a German physician who emigrated to the United States and started a medical practice in New York City in 1938.