Nine patients were accrued, six of whom were able to be evaluated for response. Since the late 1970s, when he founded his clinic, Dr. Burzynski has been using antineoplastons to treat cancer. For example, erlotinib (brand name: Tarceva) is used to treat pancreatic cancer and non-small cell lung cancer. Dasatinib (trade name: Sprycel) is also a kinase inhibitor. She sued for negligence, negligent misrepresentation, fraud, deceptive trade and conspiracy. The story, including the threats against the bloggers, was covered by the BMJ (formerly the British Medical Journal). It’s hard to figure out from his website, but looking elsewhere can provide hints. What, exactly, is he doing? But how credible is this claim? Some of them do other things. He seems to think that all tumor suppressors prevent mutations, which is, of course, not true. For example, here are a typical radio interview (on Oprah Radio, of course!) Dr. Burzynski is also not shy about being interviewed by promoters of alternative medicine, such as Mike Adams. All of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved gene-targeted medications are available for treatment at the Burzynski Clinic. This number grows rapidly with the advancement of the research in genomics. And:  There are currently close to 30 targeted therapeutics approved by the FDA (as of January 2011). Elsewhere, Dr. Burzynski claims:  In some cases conventional therapy is the most appropriate treatment for a patient. Here is how it is described:    Our approach to cancer is a result of Dr. Burzynski’s extensive experience in cancer research in the field of genetics and genomics. In the meantime, let’s start with a description of what “personalized medicine” means to cutting edge cancer researchers. But what is “personalized gene-targeted cancer therapy,” according to Dr. Burzynski? This suit was eventually withdrawn in November 2012 after the judge allowed Burzynski to repudiate responsibility for the actions of staff at the clinic. Antineoplastons aren’t even listed until the third bullet point. No longer are antineoplastons the center of attention at his clinic. In fact, from my perspective, it appears to me as though over the last few years Dr. Burzynski has pivoted. Although antineoplastons are the dubious cancer therapy upon which Dr. Burzynski built his fame, they aren’t the only thing he does. Worse, as has been noted in a number of places, high doses of antineoplastons as sodium salts are required, doses so high that severe hypernatremia is a concern. In January 2012, Lola Quinlan, an elderly, stage IV cancer patient, sued Burzynski for using false and misleading tactics to "swindle her out of $100,000". There was a trend for alternative medicine users to have shorter survival (hazard ratio 1.30, 95% CI, 0.99–1.70; P = 0.056), a result that was robust to various sensitivity analyses. Whether the groups will eventually reach an N of 1, I don’t know, but that is the goal.  Lawsuits  In 1994, a court found against Burzynski in a case of insurance fraud. For instance, in breast cancer, Herceptin (trastuzumab) targets the HER2 oncogene, which is amplified in some breast cancers. We study which genes in individual patients are abnormal, trying to determine the genetic signature of cancer in these patients. Later in the interview, Somers (SS) asks Dr. Burzynski (SB) about breast cancer, and he replies:  SB: At the moment we use a different approach. Whether this is what Dr. Burzynski is doing or not with the chemotherapy part of his approach, I don’t know for sure, but it sure sounds like it. From the description above, it sounded very much to me as though Dr. Burzynski is combining various targeted agents with metronomic chemotherapy. It all sounds so reasonable, and, indeed, this is exactly the sort of thing that lots of cancer centers are trying to do. We’re able to reduce any time-wasting on ineffective drugs and cater it, obviously, much more to the patients and their individual cancer needs. This way we’re able to reduce side effects. At around the three minute mark, the announcer states:  We combine gene-targeting drugs and low dose chemo, if needed. Finally, there was a clue (to me, at least) about what it is that Burzynski is doing. The other thing that interested me was how the video emphasizes the use of FDA-approved medications. Clearly, the producer went to great lengths to make Burzynski’s lab look like any other molecular and cell biology lab—even like my lab. However, she was polite with me, probably because of the positions I hold at an NCI-designated comprehensive cancer center. I also had a brief e-mail correspondence with Renée Trimble, Director of Public Relations for the Burzynski Institute. I’ll try to show you what I mean.