Since most pain is felt in the superficial layers of the skin, a quick insertion of the needle is recommended. According to Hanjo Lehmann:  And no matter which needles were used – once puncturing the skin, there were always two dangers. The majority of people who seek out acupuncture do so for musculoskeletal problems, including low back pain, shoulder stiffness, and knee pain. Footnotes Accepted for publication February 1, 2013. It is now clear that they do not. It is rather curious that the earliest manuscripts of Chinese medicine, which date from the second century BCE, make no mention of acupuncture (Basser 1999). Did the Chinese teach the rest of the world these things? First, due to the lack of anatomical knowledge, the danger that any deep puncturing might damage internal structures or inner organs. It can be associated with the application of heat, pressure, or laser light. The method used in TCM is likely the most widespread in the United States.  Sham acupuncture and research  It is difficult but not impossible to design rigorous research trials for acupuncture.  Acupuncture is generally safe when done by an appropriately trained practitioner using clean needle technique and single-use needles. Sujichim , hand acupuncture  Japanese moxibustion  A woman receiving fire cupping in China. The most frequently reported adverse events were pneumothorax and infections. The tip of the needle should not be made too sharp to prevent breakage, although blunt needles cause more pain. Acupuncture can be painful.  Related practices  Acupressure being applied to a hand. Other techniques aim at "tonifying" (Chinese: 补; pinyin: bǔ) or "sedating" (Chinese: 泄; pinyin: xiè) qi. Korean acupuncture uses copper needles and has a greater focus on the hand. Thinner needles may be flexible and require tubes for insertion.  Needling technique  Insertion  The skin is sterilized and needles are inserted, frequently with a plastic guide tube. The evidence suggests that short-term treatment with acupuncture does not produce long-term benefits. The former techniques are used in deficiency patterns, the latter in excess patterns. Acupuncture is generally only used in combination with other forms of treatment. Much confusion surrounds discussions of placebo effects. After hurting her back in 2005, she desperately tried any type of treatment to recover. Unfortunately, unlike the hypnotherapist, you could not practice your art without deception. In TCM, the four diagnostic methods are: inspection, auscultation and olfaction, inquiring, and palpation.  Acupuncture is the insertion of thin needles into the skin. Needles are usually disposed of after each use to prevent contamination. Accidents and infections are associated with infractions of sterile technique or neglect of the practitioner. A comparison of the average number of patients treated per hour found significant differences between China (10) and the United States (1.2). Reusable needles when used should be sterilized between applications. TCM theory and practice are not based upon scientific knowledge,and acupuncture is a pseudoscience. The evidence tells me that it is criminal to treat infertility with acupuncture, for example. A systematic review concluded that the analgesic effect of acupuncture seemed to lack clinical relevance and could not be clearly distinguished from bias. You'll have many satisfied customers and may make a decent living as well. Effectiveness  Acupuncture has been researched extensively; as of 2013, there were almost 1,500 randomized controlled trials on PubMed with "acupuncture" in the title. So, please, no more meta-analyses of acupuncture studies. On the other hand, if patients ask about it and want to try it, we should not try to stop them. They may have joined the study more to alleviate their pain than to aid science. She got temporary relief from her pain. Furthermore, some people are more susceptible to the placebo effect than others and this may be genetic (Furmark 2008).