In our study, there was no effect of feeding Bt maize for 80 or 110 days on CD3+, CD4+ and CD8+ T cells. Bt/isogenic - Bt maize-based diet was fed for 30 days followed by isogenic maize-based diet for 80 days (n = 10 pigs/treatment). On day 30, there tended to be a difference in CD4+CD8+ T cells between the isogenic and isogenic/Bt groups. Krzyzowska et al.reported a decrease in B cells in blood of the fifth generation of mice fed GM triticale. The cry1Ab gene, regardless of amplicon size, was not detected in the cecum or colon. Bt - Bt maize-based diet was fed for 110 days (n = 9 pigs/treatment). The purpose of the present study was to investigate effects of the Bt maize on microbial community structure within the porcine intestinal tract. Similar to findings for both CD3 + CD4 + and CD3 + CD8 + T cells, the proportion of CD4 + CD8 + T cells decreased over time until day 60 and increased thereafter (P<0.001). The number of both CD3 + CD4 + and CD3 + CD8 + T cells decreased on day 60 of the study but increased again by day 100 (P<0.001). Similar to published findings for pigs,,, fecal counts of total anaerobes remained high throughout the study. These findings suggest that copy number is the rate limiting step in the traceability of transgenic DNA. In addition, differences in digestive physiology between humans and ruminantsmake the latter less suitable as a human model. However, these studies were conducted in weanling pigs fed Bt maize for only 31 daysor in mature cattle fed Bt maize for four weeksor 11 days. Guertler et al.and Mazza et al.also detected fragments of the multiple copy endogenous chloroplast zein gene in organs of deer and pigs fed Bt maize, respectively. Funding sources are not disclosed, although donations are solicited. Isogenic/Bt - isogenic maize-based diet was fed for 30 days followed by Bt maize-based diet for 80 days (n = 10 pigs/treatment). Bt - Bt maize-based diet was fed for 110 days (n = 9 pigs/treatment). Fecal Lactobacillus counts were found to be stable over time in the present study. Isogenic/Bt - isogenic maize-based diet was fed for 30 days followed by Bt maize-based diet for 80 days (n = 10 pigs/treatment). I counted more than 40 different p-values coming from tests in the paper. If this study is proper, peer-reviewed science, as it claims to be, then flying pigs might also be within the realm of possibilities, as the image above shows. The Shannon diversity index (an unweighted measure of the number of species present in a community) was similar across all four treatments ( Table 3 ). One objection is the number of tests done. The authors erred in their statistical approach to analysing the stomach “inflammation” data. Really, it’s another crappy study dressed up in a suit, like the Seralini rat study and the more recent glyphosate gut microbiome fiasco. Rarefaction curves were similar between treatments ( Figures S1 , S2 , S3 and S4 ). Einspanier et al.reported that the use of PCR primers for shorter amplicons increased the chance of detecting plant DNA in ruminal contents. The transfer of endogenous plant DNA from the GIT into blood and organs appears to occur spontaneously in nature,,. This is in agreement with published literature which indicates that lactobacilli reach a stable community after the first week of life,,. Similar to fecal counts, ileal and cecal counts of Enterobacteriaceae, Lactobacillus and total anaerobes did not differ between treatments ( Table 2 ). Why didn’t that happen? And they must think we’re all stupid not to notice any of this. In other words, they don’t know how much of what was eaten by ANY of their animals. This is not the only conflict of interest we have with this paper, but I’ll let other bloggers delve into that. This one flaw invalidates the entire study. Organ samples (liver, muscle and kidney) were homogenised in 0.8% saline (0.5 g/mL) and serum was diluted in 0.8% saline (0.5 mL/mL). As noted above, given the absence of correlated pathologies, it looks like an artifact. as far from what the null hypothesis predicts) as the observed data . The goal of an experiment is to help us make predictions – perhaps about pigs in general. Both the proximate composition and the amino acid content of the isogenic and the Bt diets were similar. This is quite clearly, as Mark Lynas puts it, “Seralini 2.0”. Likewise, platelet counts and MPV were not affected but were lower in older pigs (P<0.001).