The battle was over control. Advil and Tylenol are toxic at high enough concentrations, as is water. Since the 1980s, about 70 percent of the population has been receiving fluoridated water, with the cost paid by adding a small fee to property tax bills. When new medical treatments are implemented, when new drugs are introduced into the populace, there is always some hesitation. Autism's False Prophets: Bad Science, Risky Medicine, and the Search for a Cure. By 1916 he had identified excessive amounts of fluoride occurring naturally in water supplies as the cause of the dental staining. Fluoridation was certainly a good thing when it was introduced. Many chemicals are harmless within a range of toxicity, and many are beneficial up to certain point. Further, the studies reviewed did not involve water fluoridation programs. It is supported by a variety of health, scientific, and civic groups that could hardly be expected to agree on any other single measure. First, the chemical is labeled “toxic,” but it isn’t mentioned that everything is toxic in the appropriate amounts. Chemical Conspiracy  “Portland is wrong about fluoridation” is exactly what a government shill would say, isn’t it? It’s all about the dose; it makes the poison. Water fluoridation isn’t just the addition of fluoride; it’s the regulation of fluoride in the water supply. There are no cities receiving a toxic concentration of the ion. Arguments along the lines of "the jury is out" or "the science is incomplete" are wrong. It is a copy of a naturally occurring phenomenon. People will usually go to the polls to vote against what they don't like. But many people oppose fluoridation because it is seen as an infringement of personal liberty that is not justified for public safety reasons. The fear of fluoride follows the same playbook for mischaracterizing chemicals. And if water fluoridation is a grand conspiracy, at least it’s a safe and cost-effective one. But the problems with the way this review is being presented go far deeper. "But the EPA opposes fluoridation!" 70% of respondents believed that community water should be fluoridated, 18% did not, and 12% were undecided.