Cells were washed and re-suspended in PBS-FBS and acquired using a BD FACSCanto II™ flow cytometer. Primary and secondary antibodies were added at concentrations determined by titration and incubated in the dark at room temperature for 15 min. In both Bt maize-fed groups, the mean concentration of Bt toxin in the cecal digesta was lower than in the gastric or colon digesta ( Table 9 ). The duration of the study was 110 days. Cytokine data are presented as treatment median values with the 25–75 th percentiles. Serum was stored at –20°C for subsequent analysis of Cry1Ab-specific antibodies. The outermost layer of each tissue was removed to enable sampling of the interior in order to prevent contamination by feed residue. Inc., Cary, NC) with Tukey-Kramer adjustment for multiple comparisons using day 0 values as a covariate in the model. Neither did it influence the composition of the cecal microbiota, with the exception of a minor increase in the genus Holdemania. Feed was available ad libitum as dry pellets from stainless steel dry feed hoppers 30 cm in length (O’Donovan Engineering, Coachford, Co. Digesta samples were centrifuged for 15 min at 540×g and 10 µL of 10 mM PMSF was added per mL of supernatant and samples were centrifuged for 20 min at 9390×g. Different tests work in different ways, but it is common to summarize the results with a number called a p-value. The erythrocyte index RDW also tended to increase over time (P = 0.07). However, on day 100, pigs fed Bt/isogenic maize diets tended to have higher leukocyte counts than pigs fed isogenic or Bt maize diets for 110 days ( Table 6 ; P = 0.06). In the case of the Carman study, the null hypothesis is that there’s no relationship between severe stomach inflammation and GM feed. Pigs showing signs of ill health were treated as appropriate and all veterinary treatments were recorded. The concentration of the Bt toxin in both the organ and digesta samples was determined as previously outlined by Walsh et al.. Water was available ad libitum from one nipple-in-bowl drinker (BALP, Charleville-Mezieres, Cedex, France) per pen. However, unlike the sh2 gene, rubisco was detected in 80–100% of ileal, 30–60% of cecal and 10–40% of colon digesta samples, depending on treatment. Following stimulation, PBMC were resuspended at ∼2×10 6 cells/mL in phosphate buffered saline (PBS) containing 2% fetal bovine serum (PBS-FBS). Pens (1.81 m×1.18 m) were fully slatted with plastic panelled partitions. The statistics are a bit confusing too — 22.2% of GM-fed male pigs had “severe” inflammation (compared to 5.6%), yet 41.7% of GM-fed female pigs had “severe” inflammation (compared to 18.9%). The statistical test will tell us whether we should reject the null hypothesis and conclude that there is evidence of a relationship between the factors. Both haemogloblin concentration and hematocrit initially increased as the pigs aged but decreased thereafter (P<0.01). In fact, the Bt toxin was most concentrated in the colon digesta. One way to improve upon the authors’ test would be simply to refrain from merging three categories into one. The temperature was maintained at 28 to 30°C in the first week and reduced by 2°C per week to 22°C. But there’s a catch. It was only detected in the digesta of pigs fed Bt maize for 110 days or the isogenic/Bt maize diet ( Table 9 ). The erythrocyte indices MCH (P<0.01), and MCHC (P<0.001) increased over time, while MCV was lower in older pigs (P<0.001). Lynas is also skeptical about the other co-author of the study, Howard Vlieger. Water was available ad libitum from one BALP drinking bowl. All diets were manufactured and analyzed for proximate analysis and amino acid concentration ( Table 1 ) as previously described by Walsh et al.. No Bt toxin fragments were detected in gastric digesta from these pigs. This assumption is called the null hypothesis. Haemogloblin concentration, haematocrit or the erythrocyte parameters MCV, MCH, MCHC and RDW were not altered by dietary treatment. In these pigs, it was detected in 90 and 80% of the gastric samples, 80 and 50% of cecal samples and 100% of colon samples, respectively 3 h after the last meal was administered. Ventilation was by exhaust fans and air inlets connected to a Stienen PCS 8200 controller. There were no differences in growth and mortality rates and pigs at sacrifice appeared in similar health. What if one was really high or really low in isoflavones? ‘natural foods' outfit, which markets non-GMO grain. Antibodies were used according to manufacturer’s recommendations.