Well, it turns out that the UCSF archive actually has a summary of one of these seminars, the one held in 1975. Be that as it may, it’s hard not to feel great sympathy for Ainscough. The story of glyoxylide is actually rather fascinating, and perhaps I’ll revisit it sometime. Unfortunately, it’s more than just one story. One thing that piqued my interest was a treatment called Koch’s Glyoxylide. But what I quickly found out that those who dismissed the therapy did not have conclusive evidence that it didn’t work. The fallout from that earlier work was so controversial, far-reaching, yet uplifting; I decided to make a feature length film. Since I am a filmmaker, I wanted to meet Dr. Gerson’s family and do a short film for charity. So when I was introduced to the work of Dr. Max Gerson on human nutrition by an associate, I wanted to investigate these amazing claims. At the 5-year mark, only one was still alive (but not cancer-free); the rest had succumbed to their cancer. A naturopath who visited the Gerson Clinic in 1983 was able to track 21 patients over a 5-year period (or until death) through annual letters or phone calls. Although clinic personnel later said they would follow their patients systematically, there is no published evidence that they have done so. In 1986, however, investigators learned that patients were not monitored after they left the facility. And:  Charlotte Gerson claims that treatment at the clinic has produced high cure rates for many cancers. The Gerson protocol provides that “purification,” just as a wide variety of “colon cleansers” and “liver flushes” beloved of “alternative medicine” mavens. The Gerson Therapy is one of the few treatments to have a 60 year history of success. In fact, as was the case for Expelled!, unacknowledged conspiracy or even outright dogma is at the heart of the movie. Over 200 articles in respected medical literature and thousands of people cured of their incurable diseases document the Gerson Therapy’s effectiveness. These substances then break down diseased tissue in the body, while enemas aid in eliminating the lifelong buildup of toxins from the liver. An abundance of nutrients from thirteen fresh, organic juices is consumed every day, providing your body with a super dose of enzymes, minerals and nutrients. One aspect of the Gerson Therapy that sets it apart from most other treatment methods is its all-encompassing nature. The Gerson “Therapy”  Let’s review a bit about just what the Gerson therapy is. Because he’s been converted and is now an evangelist. So now, not surprisingly, the filmmaker (through Garrett) has a mission:  Garrett’s mission now is to tell the world. You can be sure that quite a few of those supposedly nefarious cancer researchers, government bureaucrats, and big pharma executives would too. Someone would talk, probably a lot of people. In doing more investigation, it quickly became evident that an almost criminal set of priorities has been in play when it comes to treating human disease. In the meantime, she reaps great rewards, charging $99AUD for tickets to see her speak. I might even end up dying of cancer someday. Be sure to check out this trailer for The Beautiful Truth as well . run over the Thanksgiving weekend, there will be question-and-answer sessions featuring Howard Straus, Charlotte Gerson, and Polly Emery. After some of the shows during the film’s L.A. Unfortunately, it’s too late for those of you in New York, as the film’s run there is over, but here’s one good thing about this movie for readers living in L.A. I realize I’m going out on a limb here, but what’s the point of being a blogger if you don’t take outrageous risks from time to time? Key information will be missing from each and every such testimonial. I predict that there will be the usual “testimonials” by people who say they were “sent home to die” by their oncologists, only to be “saved” by Gerson or his daughter. Those who believe in vitalism also often believe that it is somehow better to eat “live” food, as if we can somehow absorb its life force by eating it. Pasteurized food is “dead, dead,” apparently just like the parrot in a certain famous Monty Python sketch and not unlike Steve Kroschel’s brain. Never mind that we have no idea what techniques were used to take these pictures or even what this “energy” is supposed to be. The narrator proclaims, “The uncooked carrot has a startling line of strong energy” that–surprise, surprise!–the cooked carrot obviously lacks. The other, we are told, is of an uncooked baby carrot.