The fluoridation of water supplies to municipalities in the U.S. is done to prevent tooth decay. There is little debate among scientists over the effectiveness and safety of fluoridation to fight cavities. In 1999, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in the US listed water fluoridation as one of the ten great public health achievements of the 20th century, alongside vaccination, family planning and the recognition of the dangers of smoking. Other organisations endorsing fluoridation include the World Health Organisation, the US Surgeon General, the American Public Health Association, the European Academy of Paediatric Dentistry and the national dental associations of Australia, Canada, and the US.

Fluoride is naturally occuring in all types of water. In the small amounts that people are likely to be exposed to from public drinking water, the main health concern that has not been exaggerated and distorted over the years is the fear of dental fluorosis. For that reason, the EPA recommends that the amount of fluoride in a water supply not rise above certain levels. However, questionable, very mild, and mild fluorosis and most cases of moderate fluorosis are barely visible and pose no problem whatsoever. Severe fluorosis that adversely affects both appearance and function is close to zero among people who drink water that is optimally fluoridated.

In the U.S., fluoridated water is how most children are exposed to fluoride, since, compared to Europe, children do not have school-based dental care and do not visit the dentist regularly. It is especially beneficial to children living in poverty, whose parents cannot afford adequate dental care. Furthermore, it's relatively easy and inexpensive to accomplish. 

However, a small but vocal contrarian community has effectively blocked several cities from fluoridating by creating fear that the practice is unsafe and unnecessary. A review on fluoride’s effect on IQ out of Harvard was waved about as the main scientific opposition, but has since been thoroughly refuted. Deniers claim a 2006 report by the National Research Counsil's Committee Report on Fluoride in Drinking Water opposes fluoridation, but the report merely reviews the evidence for safe levels. There are various WHO publications about the need to remove fluoride from water. However, these guides are for people living in areas where there's a dangerous concentration in the local drinking water due to natural sources. Deniers will typically list nations that do not fluoridate their water. Most of these nations have dental care and surveillance at the school level. In addition to better access to childhood dental care, many of these nations don't fluoridate their water because they fluoridate their salt.
