Jessica Ainscough was diagnosed at age 22 with a rare sarcoma known as an epithelioid sarcoma. As a result of her research she decided to try Gerson Therapy. Ainscough is portrayed in the media as a maverick bucking the system and taking a gamble that “paid off”. However, 33% of patients with an epithelioid sarcoma survive for 10 years. Ainscough was lucky enough to be in this group. 

Virtually anything that a Gerson patient experiences is attributed to a “healing reaction” or a “flare-up.” It’s a common theme in cancer quackery to claim that the cancerous tumor is not the “true problem”. Ainscough promotes quackery that, if followed, will lead to the unnecessary death of cancer patients like her mother. Sharyn Ainscough’s cancer was probably in a fairly early stage and therefore treatable with multimodality therapy including surgery plus chemotherapy, radiation, and/or hormonal therapy with a high probability of success. Sharyn’s faith in the Gerson therapy likely killed her. 

Gerson therapy claims that it naturally reactivates your body’s magnificent ability to heal itself – with no damaging side effects. This, a powerful, natural treatment, boosts the body’s own immune system to heal cancer, arthritis, heart disease, allergies, and many other degenerative diseases. The current version of Gerson therapy, which has evolved since his death, recommends "detoxification" with frequent coffee enemas and a low-sodium diet that includes more than a gallon a day of juices made from fruits, vegetables, and raw calf's liver. 

There are numerous stories told by people who think they have had their cancer, or some other disease, cured by the Gerson regimen. However, this is greatly helped by the fact that dead patients can't talk. Moreover, many people think they've been cured of deadly diseases when they didn't have a deadly disease in the first place. No results of laboratory or animal studies are reported in the scientific literature contained in the Medical Literature Analysis and Retrieval System Online database. In 1959, the National Cancer Institute reviewed the 50 case histories presented in Gerson's book A Cancer Therapy: Results of Fifty Cases and concluded that overall Gerson's data provided no demonstration of benefit. A recent review of the Gerson treatment rationale concluded: (a) the "poisons" Gerson claimed to be present in processed foods have never been identified, (b) frequent coffee enemas have never been shown to mobilize and remove poisons from the liver and intestines of cancer patients, (c) there is no evidence that any such poisons are related to the onset of cancer, (d) there is no evidence that a "healing" inflammatory reaction exists that can seek out and kill cancer cells.

To qualify for a level of evidence analysis, a study must (1) be published in a peer-reviewed scientific journal, (2) report on a therapeutic outcome or outcomes, such as tumor response, improvement in survival, or measured improvement in quality of life and (3) describe clinical findings in sufficient detail that a meaningful evaluation can be made. A study published in 1995 by the Gerson folks, "Five-year survival rates of melanoma patients treated by diet therapy after the manner of Gerson: a retrospective review," did not meet these criteria. The American Cancer Society has issued warnings that the method can be harmful and there have been reports of comas, seizures, and death resulting from extremely low sodium levels and imbalance of electrolytes in the patients undergoing the "therapy." Three deaths that seem related to coffee enemas have been reported in the literature. 

